Sustainability 
 Report
2025
Amazon

Introduction
About Amazon and This Report
Amazon is a global company with more than 1.5 million 
full- and part-time employees worldwide and operations 
in North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, the 
Middle East, and Asia-Pacific.
We combine data and science with passion and innovation 
to tackle some of the world’s most urgent environmental 
and societal challenges. We set bold, long-term 
aspirations, such as The Climate Pledge—our goal to reach 
net-zero carbon emissions across our global operations by 
2040—and create strategic, actionable plans to achieve 
them. This determined, solutions-focused approach 
guides our efforts to create lasting positive outcomes for 
our customers, employees, communities, and the planet.
This report details progress against our goals
 and our 
approach to priority sustainability topics . Data in this 
report reflects the period from January 1 through December 
31, 2025, unless otherwise indicated. We report financial 
figures in U.S. dollars ($), unless otherwise stated. 
Framework Disclosures
In addition to this report, we share our 2025 Sustainability 
Reporting Framework Summary on our website, which 
provides cross-references between our 2025 reporting 
and frameworks including the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB), the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD), Taskforce on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD), and the United Nations Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs).
Overview Progress Appendix
Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary AI for Sustainability
 2 | 
Contents
How to Navigate This Report
Look for these symbols throughout this report:
A link to a website
A link within the report
A link to a download
Learn about Climate Pledge Friendly certifications
Overview
2 Introduction
3 A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability 
Officer
4 How We Work
5 Goals Summary
6 AI for Sustainability
Progress
7 Climate and Energy
14 Water
17 Waste and Circularity
21 Packaging
24 Biodiversity
26 Sustainable Shopping
27 Human Rights
29 Employee Experience
32 Health and Safety
35 Responsible Supply Chain
39 Communities
42 Responsible Business Practices
Appendix
46 Data Tables and Assurance Statements
50 Endnotes
51 Disclaimer and Forward-looking 
Statements
Learn more about our cover photos
 
Our delivery station in Elkhart, Indiana, was 
designed with lower-carbon materials including mass 
timber and lower-carbon concrete.

A Letter from 
Our Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer
Amazon’s biggest breakthroughs often start with a bold, 
long-term vision. The path to get there is rarely clear (if it 
were, the vision wouldn’t be that bold and you could 
probably reach it quickly), so there’s a ton of invention, 
investment, and zigs and zags along the way. For Amazon’s 
work in sustainability, we laid out our long-term vision 
starting back in 2015 when we first suggested net-zero 
goals in a planning meeting, which culminated in setting 
The Climate Pledge in 2019. Sure enough, we’ve 
encountered tremendous change in each of the seven years 
since. Perhaps none bigger than AI, which is both 
transforming what's possible—accelerating discovery, 
optimizing systems, and unlocking solutions that weren't 
within reach before—yet also creating new demands for 
energy, water, and infrastructure. While the speed and scale 
of AI adoption is unique—and the change is happening 
faster and more broadly than anything else we’ve 
encountered in our lifetimes—the need to stay stubborn on 
our vision and flexible on the details is familiar territory. I 
remain confident and optimistic in the overarching vision 
and the long-term progress we continue to make toward it. 
With new catalytic technologies, we may be able to move 
faster—or the demand may slow us down. But what 
alternative do we have but to continue to invest, learn, and 
move forward to try to solve one of the world’s most 
challenging issues? 
As part of this journey, we’ve seen new areas of focus 
emerge in the public debate in recent years—particularly 
water and energy. While we agree those are critically 
important areas to focus on right now, they’re not new to 
us at Amazon. We were investing heavily in clean energy 
for many years before it became a dinner table 
conversation. This early commitment has led us to become 
one of the largest corporate purchasers of renewable 
energy for six years in a row, one of the most energy-
efficient data center operators in the world, and an early 
investor in new technologies like small modular reactors 
(SMRs). The same is true with water. As we recently shared, 
we’ve been inventing and investing in technology to 
increase our water usage efficiency across our data center 
footprint for many years already, and today our data 
centers are seven times more water-efficient than the 
industry average. We also have more buildings than any 
other cloud provider using reclaimed water, and we’re 
investing in water replenishment projects around the world 
that have helped us get 75% of the way toward our goal to 
be water positive by 2030. These things don't happen 
overnight, but I'm proud of where we are and we're pushing 
to go faster. 
As we continue working to sustainably meet our customers’ 
demands for AI, we’re also investing in our teammates and 
neighbors so they can take advantage of the new 
opportunities that AI creates—helping to build sustainable 
communities and power prosperity across the country and 
around the world. It’s why we launched Future Ready 2030
—a $2.5 billion pledge to help 50 million people gain new 
skills and benefit from the new opportunities in this 
changing economy. Working with local partners, we offer 
programs ranging from prepaid college tuition and career 
certifications for our employees, to free AI skills training for 
people at any point in their careers, to computer science 
education in our schools. While change can be unsettling, 
we see huge new opportunities for so many people and are 
committed to doing our part.
While AI has captured a lot of attention in the past few 
years, we also continue to make significant progress in 
many other areas of our business
. You can learn more 
about them throughout this report, but here are a few 
highlights. In 2025, we shipped more packages than ever 
while generating less waste per unit shipped than the 
previous year. Our scientists and engineers retrofitted 
automated packaging machines with paper-based 
alternatives, avoiding 288 million single-use plastic bags in 
North America. We operate the largest corporate electric 
vehicle fleet in North America, and 52,700 of our electric 
delivery vans delivered 2.4 billion packages around the 
world. Across Europe, 75 micromobility hubs delivered 
packages and groceries using electric cargo bikes and other 
zero-exhaust-emission vehicles, reducing noise and 
emissions in urban neighborhoods where we operate. We’re 
also reimagining the buildings behind our deliveries, 
including our first delivery station constructed using mass 
timber—a material that can hold its own against concrete 
and steel in terms of structural strength, is less carbon-
intensive to produce, and retains the carbon that the trees 
sequestered before the trees were harvested.
Finally, Amazonians around the world continue to use our 
success and scale to help address important needs like 
disaster relief, food insecurity, and affordable housing. 
When disasters strike, we use our delivery infrastructure to 
move life-saving resources and support first responders, 
including committing to provide over 2,000 free rapid 
response technology systems that deliver power, 
connectivity, and water after disasters in minutes to 
nonprofit partners at no cost by 2027. For families 
experiencing hunger, we've adapted our logistics to deliver 
meals where they're needed, and since 2020, we’ve 
delivered 60 million meals to 200,000 U.S. households. 
And we've worked alongside housing experts and local 
governments to fund and accelerate affordable housing in 
our hometown communities, committing $3.6 billion to 
help create or preserve over 35,000 affordable homes. 
I want to thank all our teammates around the world for 
their relentless drive to innovate—for jumping headfirst 
into problems no one has solved yet, even when others 
might be walking away from the challenges, and for 
making the impossible feel possible. The path forward isn't 
always straight, but the vision is clear and so is our resolve 
to get there.
With gratitude,
Kara Hurst
Chief Sustainability Officer
Overview Progress Appendix
Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary AI for Sustainability
 3 |

How We Work
Our Mission To make customers’ lives better and easier every day
Our Business Our Work Our Customers Our Supply Chain Our Workforce Our Communities
We are committed to addressing 
sustainability at every stage of our 
value chain.
We offer a wide range of products and 
services—both Amazon-branded and 
from other brands and third-party 
sellers—through our Amazon stores, 
supported by advanced global 
transportation and logistics 
capabilities. We also operate 
businesses in digital media, including 
the creation and distribution of original 
entertainment content. In addition, 
AWS is the world’s most 
comprehensive and broadly adopted 
cloud, supporting businesses, 
governments, nonprofits, and other 
organizations around the globe.
We continually seek new and better 
ways to serve customers, offering 
lower prices, more convenient services, 
and a larger selection of more 
sustainable products. We also help 
customers advance their businesses 
and enable digital transformations 
through AWS, content development 
services, and advertising options. In 
addition, we support small businesses 
with access to Amazon’s tools, 
resources, and network, helping them 
reach customers around the world.
We procure materials, commodities, 
components, finished goods, and 
services from a complex supplier 
network. We engage suppliers globally 
to align our expectations for respecting 
human rights, maintaining safe, 
inclusive workplaces, and promoting 
best practices. We prioritize business 
with suppliers who help us meet our 
decarbonization goals; and we engage 
with our suppliers to set credible 
targets, share their progress, and avoid 
carbon emissions over time.
Amazon’s more than 1.5 million full- 
and part-time employees are important 
to our success, from enabling global 
fulfillment to delivering on 
sustainability initiatives. We support 
them in advancing their own career 
goals, and we offer competitive pay 
and benefits, upskilling and 
educational programs, opportunities to 
give back to our communities through 
volunteerism, as well as a safe and 
inclusive workplace.
Amazon is committed to investing in 
local communities and being a good 
neighbor around the world, wherever 
we operate. We work side-by-side with 
community partners to build long-
term, innovative programs that have a 
lasting positive impact. Programs vary 
globally and include increasing access 
to affordable housing, alleviating 
hunger, strengthening education, and 
helping those affected by natural 
disasters when they occur.
Our Reporting 
Topics
We include a number of topics in 
our reporting. We view these 
topics as interconnected and 
recognize that our progress in one 
area can often help address 
challenges in another.
Overview Progress Appendix
Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary AI for Sustainability
 4 | 
Employee Experience 
Climate and Energy 
 Waste and Circularity 
Health and Safety 
Packaging 
Responsible Supply Chain 
Water 
Communities 
Biodiversity 
Responsible Business Practices 
Human Rights 
Sustainable Shopping

Goals Summary
Goals 2023 Progress 2024 Progress 2025 Progress Status
Climate and Energy 
Reach net-zero carbon emissions across our global
operations by 2040
65.28 MMTCO2e 69.55 MMTCO2e 80.85 MMTCO2e*
113.6 gCO2e/$Revenue 109.0 gCO2e/$Revenue 112.8 gCO2e/$Revenue†
Inspire and invite others to sign The Climate Pledge 
and join us on a mission to reach net-zero carbon
emissions by 2040
473 signatories 549 signatories 656 signatories
At least 100,000 electric delivery vans on the road by 
2030, from Rivian and other manufacturers 
19.0K+ electric 
delivery vans
31.4K+ electric 
delivery vans
52.7K+ electric 
delivery vans
Deploy 10,000 electric vehicles (EVs) in India by 2025 7.2K+ EVs deployed 10K+ EVs deployed 12.7K+ EVs deployed
Match 100% of the electricity consumed by our 
global operations with renewable energy by 2025—
five years ahead of our original target of 2030
100% matched 100% matched 100% matched
Invest in wind and solar capacity equal to the energy
use of all active Echo, Fire TV, and Ring devices
worldwide by 2025¶
100% capacity procured 
in 2022
100% energy matched 
with operational capacity
100% energy matched 
with operational capacity
Waste and Circularity 
Reduce food waste by 50% across U.S. and Europe
operations by 2030§
80M meals-equivalent 
donated globally
81M meals-equivalent 
donated globally
52M meals-equivalent 
donated globally 
* Million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. 
† Grams carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of revenue, changed from per dollar of gross merchandise sales in previous reports to better align to independent 
reporting standards. Learn more about how we calculate carbon intensity 
¶ We model and measure the energy consumed by our devices in different types of use, then project their total average global annual electricity consumption. 
§ Meals-equivalent donated globally aligns with our approach to prevent waste by prioritizing the flow of products to their intended use, in this case ensuring 
surplus food goes toward human consumption. A reduction in meals-equivalent donations indicates a reduction in food waste. 
Goals 2023 Progress 2024 Progress 2025 Progress Status
Biodiversity 
We achieved 33 of 35 commodities sourcing goals in 2025. Learn more about our goals and progress 
Water 
Amazon will be water positive across data centers by 
2030, returning more water to communities than we 
use in our direct data center operations
41% progress toward 
meeting our water 
positive goal
53% progress toward 
meeting our water 
positive goal
75% progress toward 
meeting our water 
positive goal**
Amazon will be water positive in India by 2027, 
returning more water to communities in India than 
we use in our direct operations
Goal set in 2024 120% water
positive in India
Employee Experience 
Invest $1.2 billion to upskill over 300,000 U.S. 
Amazon employees by 2025
358K+ employees 
upskilled††
439K employees 
upskilled
599K employees 
upskilled
Invest $2.5 billion through Future Ready 2030, a 
commitment to expand access to education and skills
training and help prepare at least 50 million people 
for the future of work
Goal set in 2025
Communities 
Invest $3.6 billion through Amazon’s housing fund to 
create and preserve more than 35,000 affordable 
homes§§
$1.8B committed and 
15.8K homes created or 
preserved
$2.2B committed and 
21K homes created or 
preserved
$2.4B committed and 
23K homes created or 
preserved
** A number below 100% indicates we are still working to meet the water positive goal. 
†† In 2023, we expanded our reporting to include all in-scope upskilling programs in the U.S.
§§ This goal is not currently time-bound. Progress is since 2021. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary AI for Sustainability
 5 | 
Achieved
 Making Progress
 Did Not Meet

AI for 
Sustainability
From the recommendation engines that personalize 
shopping experiences to the AI-powered robots that 
optimize order fulfillment in our warehouses, we have 
developed and deployed AI and machine learning (ML) 
models to power customer experiences and internal 
operations for over 25 years. One of our longest-standing 
examples of using AI to make customers’ lives easier is Alexa, 
our AI assistant, which launched more than a decade ago. 
AI for Efficiency
We use AI to improve efficiency and address sustainability 
challenges across our value chain. Not only do we develop 
and deploy our own AI solutions, we also support 
partners, industry organizations, and coalitions through 
funding, accelerator programs, and collaborative 
initiatives. For example, in 2025, our Amazon 
Sustainability Accelerator welcomed Greyparrot, which 
has developed a computer vision system that observes 
waste conveyor belts to identify and categorize more than 
110 different types of waste in real time.
AI for Innovation and Access
We also focus on democratizing access to the benefits of 
AI and helping develop AI expertise globally, empowering 
others to address the world’s most urgent and complex 
challenges. The Idaho National Laboratory and Lawrence 
Livermore National Laboratory are using our AI 
technology to help advance the next generation of safe 
nuclear energy. The AWS Education Equity Initiative
 , 
a $100 million, five-year investment in AI technology, 
expands access to education and technical skills globally. 
We also help reduce barriers to deploying fast, capable AI 
with our cost-effective Amazon Nova
 portfolio of AI 
models and services, designed to help customers move 
from experimentation to reliable production at scale.
Responsible AI
As we continue to scale our AI capabilities and 
democratize access to the benefits of AI, we also take 
responsibility for mitigating the risks of our technology. 
Our policies and tools
 provide guardrails for deploying
AI in our infrastructure. We actively collaborate to advance 
standards for responsible AI, through efforts such as the 
G7 AI Hiroshima International Process Code of Conduct, 
the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute Consortium, 
and the Frontier Model Forum. We also developed a 
Frontier Model Safety Framework
 that outlines the 
protocols we follow to ensure that the frontier models we 
develop do not exceed specified risk thresholds without 
appropriate safeguards in place.
Although AI can increase energy and water demand in 
data centers, we are pioneering designs such as 
configurable liquid-to-chip cooling
 that substantially 
reduce both. We are committed to sourcing carbon-free 
energy and returning more water to our communities 
than we withdraw for our data center operations. 
Additionally, we pay for the full electricity costs of our 
data centers while making substantial investments in 
building new energy generation and transmission 
infrastructure that benefits our broader communities.
At the root of this work is our core belief that AI is not just 
a tool but can be a turning point for sustainability when it 
is developed and deployed responsibly. We provide details 
on our efforts to leverage AI for sustainability and improve 
the sustainability of AI throughout this report. Click on the 
links in the infographic to the right to learn more.
Overview Progress Appendix
Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary AI for Sustainability
 6 | 
Packaging
We leverage AI to identify the most 
efficient packaging solutions for millions 
of packages and order combinations.
Learn more here
 
Biodiversity
In 2025, Amazon adopted use of an AI 
tool, BNG.AI, to enable rapid assessment 
of the biodiversity value of potential 
development sites in the UK.
Learn more here
 
Waste and Circularity
In 2025, we developed an AI system to 
identify the material composition of 
unsellable and non-donatable inventory, 
such as multilayer plastics, textiles, and 
certain electronics, to drive more 
effective sorting and recycling.
Learn more here
 
Climate and Energy
As of 2025, AI utility monitoring tools 
quickly identify leaks, malfunctioning 
HVAC and refrigeration systems, and 
operational opportunities at 820 
Amazon buildings.
Learn more here
 
Employee Experience
To improve access to benefits and 
compensation information, we 
enhanced our internal A to Z app and 
website with an AI assistant, Aza, that 
offers easily accessible and personalized 
information about benefits, health care, 
and paid time off.
Learn more here
 
Water
We were a founding partner in the 
launch of the Water-AI Nexus Center 
of Excellence, a collaborative effort 
to advance water sustainability for 
AI infrastructure.
Learn more here
 
Responsible Supply Chain
AI modeling tools help identify suppliers 
at higher risk of not meeting our Supply 
Chain Standards, streamlining processes 
and aiding our experts to prioritize which 
suppliers to audit.
Learn more here
 
eHuman Rights
In 2025, Amazon used AI to transform data 
into actionable insights to inform priorities, 
due diligence, and decision making across 
our global supplier network.
Learn more here
 
Responsible Business Practices
Recognizing the transformative potential 
of AI, we embed eight priorities for 
responsible development and 
deployment of AI in our policies, 
frameworks, and tools.
Learn more here
 
Scaling AI across Our Value Chain

Climate and 
Energy
Our Approach
We have a responsibility to lead meaningful climate action 
and carbon emissions reductions. Our approach is 
grounded in climate science and centers on The Climate 
Pledge , our commitment to reach net-zero carbon 
emissions across our global operations by 2040. We use 
our scale and resources to drive transformative progress 
across our operations and supply chain, while 
demonstrating that ambitious climate action can align 
with exceptional customer service, business growth, good 
jobs, and thriving communities. 
We aim to achieve net-zero carbon emissions through 
decarbonization of our operations and supply chain, then 
neutralizing any residual emissions. Our approach spans 
five areas: 
• Reducing supply chain emissions by engaging suppliers 
to set targets and reduce emissions, embedding lower-
carbon materials in our buildings, and scaling lower-
carbon fuels in our logistics network 
• Decarbonizing our direct operations through delivery 
efficiency, electric vehicles, lower-carbon fuels, and 
lower-carbon heating and cooling systems 
• Addressing emissions from purchased electricity by 
driving data center and building efficiency and investing 
in carbon-free energy, including solar, wind, nuclear, 
and battery storage 
• Scaling carbon neutralization to account for residual 
emissions through nature-based solutions, carbon 
removal technologies, and super pollutant abatement 
• Driving collective action through The Climate Pledge, 
joint action projects, climate finance, innovation 
investment, and policy advocacy 
Our Progress
Our Carbon Footprint
The world is changing fast. The way people shop, the way 
businesses operate, and the way technology powers daily 
life are all being transformed—and the environmental 
stakes have never been higher. Online shopping now 
reaches more people in more places than ever, and 
demand for AI and cloud services is accelerating as 
organizations modernize their infrastructure. Customers 
today receive everything from household essentials to 
prescriptions at their doorstep, and businesses of all sizes 
are migrating to the cloud and embracing AI to solve 
problems that seemed impossible just a few years ago. 
These trends are driving significant growth across our 
business—since 2019, revenue has grown 156%, with a 
12% increase in 2025 alone, including 10% in North 
America and 20% in AWS. 
We are committed to growing as sustainably as possible—
for customers, our investors, and our planet. Every 
package Amazon delivers and every workload that 
migrates to our data centers is an opportunity for that 
activity to happen more sustainably. Typically, ordering 
online instead of driving to multiple stores generates 
fewer carbon emissions, and Amazon has reduced 
emissions per shipped unit by 7% compared to 2024 and 
39% compared to 2019.2 Additionally, when a business 
moves from an on-premises data center to an Amazon 
data center, research
 estimates that data is processed 
4.1 times more efficiently.3 
When we co-founded The Climate Pledge in 2019, and 
encouraged other companies to join us, we anticipated 
that continued business growth, operational 
transformation, and investment in climate innovation 
could mean near-term increases in emissions before 
longer-term reductions. As we continued expanding our 
operations to better serve our customers, our carbon 
footprint grew. From 2024 to 2025, absolute emissions 
increased 16% and carbon intensity increased 3%.4,5 Yet, 
since 2019, overall carbon intensity has decreased 38% 
even as we significantly expanded the products, services, 
and deliveries we provided to customers, demonstrating 
that we are decoupling growth from emissions, in line 
with our longer-term strategy. 
Supply Chain Emissions
Supply chain emissions include building and data center 
construction, fuel consumption by third-party 
transportation providers, and production of Amazon-
branded products and hardware. Our supply chain 
emissions account for 76% of our carbon footprint, and 
these emissions increased 20% compared to 2024. Given 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 7 | 
Match 100% of the electricity 
consumed by our global operations 
with renewable energy by 2025—
five years ahead of our original 
target of 2030
100%
Of the electricity consumed by 
Amazon was matched with 
renewable energy sources in 2025, 
for the third consecutive year 1
At least 100,000 electric delivery 
vans on the road by 2030, from 
Rivian and other manufacturers
52.7K+
Electric delivery vans deployed 
globally, up from 31,400 in 2024
Inspire and invite others to sign The 
Climate Pledge and join us on a 
mission to reach net-zero carbon 
emissions by 2040
656
Signatories, up from 549 in 2024
Invest in wind and solar capacity 
equal to the energy use of all active 
Echo, Fire TV, and Ring devices 
worldwide by 2025
100%
Of energy used by active Echo, Fire 
TV, and Ring devices worldwide 
was matched with operational 
wind and solar capacity for the 
second consecutive year
Deploy 10,000 electric vehicles in 
India by 2025
12.7K+
Electric delivery vehicles deployed 
in India, up from more than 10,000 
in 2024

this importance, we prioritize working with suppliers 
pursuing ambitious decarbonization targets. Our strategy 
for reducing supply chain emissions involves directly 
engaging suppliers to set decarbonization plans, reducing 
the embodied carbon in our buildings, and working with 
suppliers to electrify and scale lower-carbon fuels in our 
third-party logistics network. 
In 2025, we engaged our top suppliers—who represented 
70% of our supply chain emissions—to join The Climate 
Pledge, set credible targets, share their progress, and 
reduce emissions over time.6 As of the end of 2025, 62% 
of these suppliers located in more than 40 countries had 
credible decarbonization plans in place, a 23% year-over-
year increase.7 The potential impact of this work is 
significant: if these suppliers achieve net-zero carbon 
alongside us, they would eliminate more than 11 billion 
metric tons of CO2e emissions—the equivalent of 
eliminating the emissions from driving all passenger 
vehicles in the U.S. for approximately 11 years.
We support this progress through one-on-one coaching, 
access to power purchase agreements, and procurement 
training rolled out in 2025 to 10,000 managers who 
oversee top suppliers. We use the Higg Facility 
Environmental Module (Higg FEM)—which assesses 
supplier performance across seven areas, including carbon 
emissions, waste, and water—to verify supplier standard 
requirements. In 2025, 72% of Amazon Private Brands 
Tier 1 apparel suppliers completed the Higg FEM, up from 
61% in 2024, and their average score increased by 15% 
year over year. Starting in 2025, we also began engaging 
suppliers to share decarbonization plans through the 
CDP platform
 .
Across our businesses, suppliers are making commitments 
and taking action. As of the end of 2025, 115 Amazon 
Devices suppliers had committed to reducing their carbon 
emissions, up from 93 suppliers in 2024, and we 
supported 49 Devices suppliers—representing more than 
85% of direct manufacturing spend for Echo, Kindle, Fire 
Tablet, Fire TV, Ring, Blink, and eero devices and 
accessories—in developing renewable energy 
implementation plans. Additionally, Amazon Grocery 
received 71 commitments from suppliers, affirming their 
intention to implement carbon reduction solutions and 
Amazon Private Brands worked with 52 suppliers to 
reduce their carbon footprints by supporting the 
implementation of new carbon-free energy projects or 
verifying supplier-driven initiatives.
To advance clean energy adoption at scale, Amazon 
helped found the Corporate Energy Buyers Association’s 
(CEBA) Clean Energy Procurement Academy, which 
trained more than 100 supplier representatives across 
China and Vietnam in 2025. We also enabled 11 
suppliers to accelerate their energy transition through 
rooftop solar, green energy procurement, and renewable 
energy certificates.
In early 2025, we launched a carbon credits service on our 
Sustainability Exchange to offer high-quality carbon 
credits to Amazon suppliers, Amazon enterprise 
customers, and U.S.-based signatories of The Climate 
Pledge. We use our scale and resources to source projects 
that are additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and 
socially beneficial. As of the end of 2025, credits were 
available to companies that have set a net-zero carbon 
emissions target (covering Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions) for 
no later than 2050 and that measure and publicly report 
their carbon footprint on a regular basis. We sold our first 
credits in 2025 and are working to expand credit 
availability in 2026.
Reducing Embodied Carbon in Our Buildings
Building construction is a major driver of carbon emissions 
due to the embodied carbon generated from the 
manufacture, transportation, installation, maintenance, 
and disposal of building materials. We track the embodied 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 8 | 
38%
Decrease in carbon intensity since 2019
while revenue increased 156% demonstrating
that we are decoupling growth from emissions
and that our longer-term strategy is working62%
Of our top suppliers have decarbonization
plans in place
7%
Reduction in emissions per shipped
unit compared to 2024, and 39%
compared to 2019
*Million of metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent. † Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of revenue. ‡ Carbon emissions for 2025 were calculated 
using a market-based method, including the application of Environmental Attribute Credits (EACs). See our Carbon Methodology
  for more details.
2.4B
Packages delivered by electric vehicles
in 2025 alone and more than 4.5 billion
since 2023
4.1X
More efficient data centers
than on-premises computing

carbon of our building construction materials by using 
Building Transparency’s Embodied Carbon in Construction 
Calculator and through collaboration with our building 
contractors and suppliers.8 
We are investing in and scaling lower-carbon building 
materials. In 2025, 61 building projects across Amazon—
including data centers and fulfillment centers—
incorporated lower-carbon building materials, such as 
mass timber and lower-carbon concrete, steel, and 
aluminum, avoiding 195,000 metric tons of embodied 
CO₂e compared to traditional construction materials. 
• Lower-carbon steel: We constructed 33 data centers 
with lower-carbon steel in 2025, in addition to 67 since 
2023. We also built 22 operations buildings with lower-
carbon steel. 
• Lower-carbon concrete: We constructed 39 data 
centers with lower-carbon concrete in 2025, in addition 
to 74 since 2023. We also built 14 operations buildings 
with lower-carbon concrete. 
• Mass timber: In 2025, six Amazon buildings in design or 
construction integrated mass timber elements including 
a delivery station in Elkhart, Indiana
 . 
• Lower-carbon copper: In early 2026, Amazon agreed to 
be the first customer for Rio Tinto's lower-carbon 
copper produced using Nuton bioleaching technology. 
Scaling Lower-Carbon Alternatives
We are also working with suppliers to electrify our third-
party delivery network. When electrification is not an 
option, we make lower carbon shipping choices like using 
lower-carbon fuels. For example, air freight is the most 
carbon-intensive way to ship, generating 40 to 50 times 
more CO₂e per ton-mile than ocean freight.9,10 The less 
inventory shipped by plane, the lower the emissions. In 
2025, only 3% of our transoceanic shipments traveled 
by air, down from 10% in 2024. For shipments that are 
transported by plane, we are investing in sustainable 
aviation fuel (SAF)—a lower-carbon alternative to 
conventional jet fuel that can reduce lifecycle emissions 
by up to 80% . In 2025, we purchased 18.2 million 
gallons of blended and Book and Claim SAF.11
Ocean freight accounted for 97% of our transoceanic 
shipments in 2025. We purchased lower-emission biofuel 
services representing the maritime transportation of 14% 
of our ocean cargo, in alignment with industry goals from 
the First Movers Coalition
 and the Zero Emission 
Maritime Buyers Alliance (ZEMBA) . For overland 
transportation, we increased rail volume in Europe by 
37% and decreased by 1% in the U.S. due to network 
regionalization. In France, we launched high-speed rail 
parcel transportation—an Amazon first—utilizing France's 
TGV network to move over half a million packages 
between Paris and Lyon. One of the ways we have been 
working to increase rail volume in Europe has been 
making Amazon-branded trailers more versatile for rail 
transportation. We have partnered with several companies 
to integrate technology that allows us to flexibly and 
quickly move our standard trailers between trucks and 
trains. We also continue exploring using inland waterways 
and passenger trains as part of our Intermodal City 
Injections program . 
Emissions from Our Direct 
Operations
Where we have direct operational control—primarily our 
owned delivery network—emissions increased 2% 
compared to 2024, while we delivered more packages to 
more customers. Emissions from our direct operations 
represent 19% of our carbon footprint, and we reduce 
them through delivery network efficiencies, scaling electric 
vehicles (EVs), and deploying lower-carbon fuels. This 
strategy has helped us reduce emissions per shipped unit 
by 7% compared to 2024 and 39% compared to 2019. 
In 2025, we introduced a new feature for Prime members 
to add eligible items to an existing, upcoming delivery 
with a single click, eliminating extra shipping fees and 
deliveries for last-minute additions. In combination with 
Amazon Day, a delivery option that allows members to 
pick a specific day of the week to receive all weekly orders 
in fewer consolidated shipments, and other shipping 
programs, customers helped us avoid an estimated 499 
million delivery trips, 471 million boxes, and 248,000 
metric tons of CO₂e in 2025. We avoided 127 million 
vehicle miles by locating inventory closer to customers in 
the U.S., contributing to a 38% increase in same-day or 
next-day deliveries.
We grew our electric delivery van fleet by 68% in 2025, 
enabling us to deliver 2.4 billion packages via electric 
delivery vans. We aim to have at least 100,000 electric 
delivery vans on the road globally by 2030.12 In 2025, our 
transportation network expanded to more than 52,700 
electric delivery vans globally—including 37,400 in the 
U.S., 10,900 in Europe, and 4,400 in India. Rivian supplied 
more than 38,100 of these vans. In the U.S., our electric 
delivery network is supported by more than 50,500 
chargers at 380 delivery stations, making Amazon the 
largest operator of private EV charging infrastructure in 
the U.S. Additionally, we had more than 12,700 total EVs 
deployed in India at the end of 2025, an increase from 
more than 10,000 EVs in 2024.
We are also adding electric heavy goods vehicles (eHGVs) 
to our middle-mile transportation network and actively 
seeking to work with carriers with eHGVs in their fleets. 
Our middle-mile network included more than 
360 eHGVs at the end of 2025. Scaling eHGVs requires 
shippers, fleet operators, financing, infrastructure 
providers, and equipment manufacturers to develop 
concentrated areas that can support electric truck 
deployments. We collaborate with others, including 
through joint action projects
 of The Climate Pledge 
signatories, to advance the improvements in charging 
infrastructure and electrical grids required to enable 
more widespread use of eHGVs, including in our middle-
mile network. 
Beyond electric vans and trucks, we use micromobility 
solutions—such as e-cargo bikes and on-foot deliveries—
to deliver packages to customers quickly and with fewer 
carbon emissions. In 2025, we delivered 202 million 
packages via micromobility solutions, up from 170 million 
packages in 2024, and had micromobility hubs in Europe, 
Japan, the United Arab Emirates, and the U.S. 
For Amazon’s vehicles that are not yet electrified, we 
purchased 3.6 million gallons of renewable diesel—a lower-
carbon fuel made from waste fats and oils— 1.1 million 
fewer gallons than in 2024 due to availability. We also 
purchased 39.5 million gallons of renewable natural gas for 
use in 4,400 compressed natural gas vehicles in 2025. 
Amazon supports the use of lower-carbon fuels, and we are 
making investments—including through the purchase of 
carbon insets—to help increase supply, lower prices, and 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 9 | 
2025 marked a major milestone in our journey to 
decarbonize Amazon’s UK transportation network with 
the first eHGVs deployed in the UK.

broaden availability of lower-carbon fuels, including for our 
suppliers and others in our value chain. 
We are also working to reduce carbon emissions from 
heating and cooling by incorporating all-electric heating 
and cooling systems and refrigerants with a much lower 
global warming potential (GWP) than legacy 
hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) refrigerants currently in use. 
Natural refrigerants, such as ammonia, carbon dioxide, or 
propane, are widely considered the best lower-carbon 
alternative to HFCs, while “lower-GWP” refrigerants are 
those that are preferable to HFCs but not as low-GWP as 
natural refrigerants. In 2025, 342 Whole Foods Market 
stores used natural or lower-GWP refrigerants in primary 
refrigeration systems, with 29 stores relying on natural 
refrigerants, 20 using a combination of natural and other 
refrigerants, and 293 using other lower-GWP refrigerants. 
Whole Foods Market also funded projects to reduce 
livestock methane—including feed additives for dairy 
cows and solid-liquid separators for manure 
management—and invested in renewable diesel for 
on-farm equipment. 
Emissions from Purchased 
Electricity
Indirect emissions from purchasing electricity represent
5% of our total carbon footprint and increased 34% 
in 2025, driven by electricity use in data centers, 
electrification of our delivery network, and building 
electrification. Two of the most effective ways we reduce 
electricity-related emissions are improving energy efficiency 
and scaling carbon-free energy. 
When businesses and governments choose our data centers, 
they are choosing infrastructure purpose-built to do more 
with less energy. Our customer obsession drives us to 
deliver the highest performance with the lowest possible 
energy use. That means every AI model trained, every 
application hosted, and every workload processed runs on 
some of the most efficient infrastructure in the world. 
To meet strong customer demand, in 2025 we added more 
data center capacity globally than any other company, 
including more than 1.2 gigawatt (GW) in Q4 alone, and we 
expect AI and cloud services to continue growing. As we 
grow, we invest relentlessly in efficiency. Our custom-
designed chips—including Trainium3 for AI model training—
offer over five times higher output tokens (i.e., AI-generated 
responses) per megawatt (MW) of power and four times 
better performance per MW than its predecessor, while 
maintaining the same latency or response time per user. We 
also collaborate with partners like NVIDIA, whose GPU 
architectures power a broad range of AI workloads across 
AWS, building on more than 15 years of joint innovation. 
Together, these investments enable customers like Anthropic 
and OpenAI to scale their most demanding AI workloads 
with greater energy efficiency. Beyond silicon, we drive 
efficiency through software and process improvements that 
optimize server utilization across our fleet and by developing 
more efficient network architecture using our custom 
networking components. We also continue scaling 
configurable liquid-to-chip cooling in both new and existing 
data centers. Instead of cooling entire buildings, we deliver 
precision cooling directly where heat is generated—at the 
chip. This approach reduces mechanical energy consumption 
compared to traditional cooling methods by up to 50% 
during peak cooling—without increasing water usage on a 
per MW basis.
To track and provide transparency on how efficiently our 
data centers use energy, we measure Power Usage 
Effectiveness (PUE)—a ratio where 1.0 would mean that 
every watt of electricity goes directly to computing, with 
nothing lost to cooling, lighting, or other overhead. In 
2025, Amazon’s data centers achieved a global PUE of 1.14, 
nearly 9% better than the public cloud industry average of 
1.25 and 30% better than the on-premises enterprise data 
center average of 1.63.13 Our scale allows us to achieve 
higher resource utilization and energy efficiency than 
organizations using their own hardware.
The AWS Energy Management System program 
standardizes our continual energy efficiency improvement 
efforts globally. Amazon data centers and services in 35 
countries—including all of our data centers in Europe, the 
Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), Singapore, and Indonesia
—were ISO 50001 Energy Management certified in 2025. 
Learn more about AWS regional PUE
 and ISO 50001 
Scaling Carbon-Free Energy
Amazon has invested billions of dollars scaling carbon-
free energy, which has enabled more than 712 projects in 
30 countries as of January 2026—including 80 new 
projects in 2025—representing 42 GW of carbon-free 
energy capacity, enough to power 13 million U.S. homes 
for a year and avoid 48 million metric tons of CO2e once 
fully operational.14 These investments enabled us to 
match 100% of the electricity consumed by Amazon 
operations with renewable energy sources for the third 
year in a row. 
Carbon-free energy includes renewable energy 
technologies, such as wind and solar farms, on-site 
rooftop solar systems, hydroelectric, geothermal, 
and nuclear energy. There is no one-size-fits-all solution 
when it comes to transitioning to carbon-free energy, 
and we believe that all viable and scalable options should 
be considered. As the energy needs of our business and 
customers continue to grow, we are investing in carbon-
free energy that can both help power our operations and 
bring new sources of energy to the grid in communities 
around the world.
The transition to carbon-free energy creates meaningful 
economic opportunities in communities where energy 
projects are built and operated, while also driving the 
modernization and resilience of energy infrastructure. 
In 2025, an independent research study commissioned 
by Amazon confirmed
 that Amazon data centers in 
the U.S. pay the full costs of electricity, without raising 
costs for other ratepayers, and generate surplus 
revenue that utilities can use to invest in grid 
improvements for customers. 
BloombergNEF continues to recognize Amazon as one of 
the world's leading corporate purchasers of carbon-free 
energy, in addition to building the largest carbon-free 
energy portfolio of any corporation globally. In 2025, 
we achieved:
• 131,000 GW-hours (GWh) of carbon-free energy 
production annually.
• 375 utility-scale projects in our portfolio globally, 
including 264 solar, 109 wind, and two nuclear projects 
as of January 2026.
• 18 new rooftop solar projects installed, bringing the 
total to 337 projects at our fulfillment centers, sortation 
centers, and stores around the globe. In total, projects 
have a total capacity of 42 MW, generate 454,000 MW-
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 10 | 
At our data centers, new components are being 
rolled out that combine advances in power, 
cooling, and hardware to help reduce energy and 
water consumption.

hours (MWh), and avoid roughly 150,000 metric tons of 
CO₂e annually.
• 10 new carbon-free energy projects announced in the 
U.S. as of January 2026, which will add 5.5 GW of 
capacity to the grid once fully operational. In total, 
Amazon has announced 291 projects across 30 states, 
which will bring 25.6 GW of expected capacity to the 
grid once fully operational. 
• 55 new carbon-free energy projects announced in 
Europe as of January 2026, which will add 1.4 GW of 
capacity to the grid once fully operational. In total, 
Amazon has announced 287 projects across 15 
countries, which will bring 10.7 GW of expected capacity 
to the grid once fully operational. 
• 11 new carbon-free energy projects in Australia and 
three in India—announced as of January 2026, adding 
more than 565 MW of capacity in Australia and 581 MW 
in India, respectively.
To meet our climate commitments and growing energy 
demands—particularly for AI and cloud services—we are 
building a diverse carbon-free energy portfolio through 
solar, wind, and nuclear investments. In the future, we will 
report on the percentage of carbon-free energy used to 
power our operations.
Scaling nuclear power is one of our top priorities, while we 
continue to invest in wind and solar capacity and explore 
other technologies like geothermal, hydro, and battery 
storage. Amazon is working with utilities, regulators, and 
nuclear technology companies to explore ways to improve 
the safety and output of traditional nuclear plants and 
supporting development of small modular reactors (SMRs)
—advanced nuclear reactors with a small physical 
footprint that enables faster construction and closer 
proximity to power grids.
Amazon has made an investment in SMR developer 
X-energy to help bring 5 GW of new nuclear energy to 
the U.S. grid by 2039. As part of this initiative, Amazon is 
helping build one of the first modular nuclear reactor 
facilities in the U.S. The project, the Cascade Advanced 
Energy Facility, is a collaboration with Washington State 
utility Energy Northwest and X-energy. In 2025, Amazon 
and X-energy also agreed to collaborate with South 
Korea’s Doosan Enerbility and Korea Hydro & Nuclear 
Power to accelerate the deployment of new SMRs in the 
U.S. We also expanded our existing nuclear energy 
relationship with Talen Energy , which will provide 
1,900 MW of carbon-free nuclear power through 2042, 
with options to extend. These long-term contracts 
provide price stability for nuclear facilities, helping 
prevent the kind of market-driven shutdowns that have 
removed nuclear capacity from the grid.
We are continuing to expand battery capacity to collect 
and store carbon-free energy to use when other energy 
sources may be unavailable—such as at night or during 
periods of high demand—to support grid stability. By the 
end of 2025, Amazon had 15 solar energy projects paired 
with battery energy storage systems, representing 2.3 GW 
of capacity, up from 2.1 GW in 2024.
We set a goal to invest in new renewable energy capacity 
to match the electricity used by our customers' Echo, Fire 
TV, and Ring devices by 2025. By 2022, we had contracted 
enough renewable energy capacity to meet our 2025 
projections. We matched 100% of the electricity used by 
active Echo, Fire TV, and Ring devices in 2024 and 2025, 
and we aim to keep matching this electricity use 
going forward.
Implementing Efficiency Initiatives in Our 
Buildings
In 2025, Amazon’s buildings portfolio included active 
facilities in 66 countries including operations facilities, 
grocery stores, corporate offices, and data centers. Our 
building decarbonization efforts
 prioritize designing, 
constructing, and operating buildings that are increasingly 
all-electric, energy-efficient, smart, powered by carbon-free 
electricity. Amazon also has the largest international 
portfolio of Living Future Zero Carbon certified building 
space with five certified buildings.
Amazon’s decade-long North America lighting upgrade 
initiative has modernized lighting in more than 92 buildings. 
Since 2016, the program has saved over 1.6 billion kilowatt-
hours (kWh), generated $7.2 million in utility rebates, and 
avoided nearly 1.2 million metric tons of CO2e. In 2025, the 
program reached significant milestones in scale and energy 
efficiency by optimizing lighting load demands and 
introducing advanced lighting controls at 32 sites, which 
saved 10 million kWh and avoided 7,000 metric tons 
of CO₂e.
We prioritize energy efficiency in our operations buildings, 
reducing electricity demand through optimized ventilation 
and cooling controls, upgraded dock door seals, lighting 
control improvements, and intelligent material handling 
equipment management. In 2025, we reduced energy 
consumption by 131 million kWh and avoided 38,000 metric 
tons of CO2e, in addition to saving 62 million kWh and 
avoiding 24,000 metric tons of CO2e in 2024.
We also use AI
 to identify underperforming equipment and 
operational opportunities. As of the end of 2025, 820 
Amazon buildings used AI tools to monitor HVAC and water 
utilities, and 81 buildings used AI tools to monitor 
refrigeration systems. 
Carbon Neutralization
To account for residual emissions on our path to net-zero, 
we are investing in credible carbon neutralization projects 
across four areas: reducing deforestation, advancing 
nature-based removal, scaling removal technologies, and 
abating super pollutants. Learn more about our approach 
to carbon neutralization 
In 2021, we made a commitment to help preserve nature 
and mitigate risks associated with climate change through 
co-founding the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating 
Forest Finance (LEAF) Coalition . In 2025, we 
participated in a LEAF agreement to fund a government-
led program in Ghana starting in 2026. We also worked to 
support jurisdictional efforts to reduce deforestation in 
Southeast Asia and Brazil. Learn more about our efforts 
to preserve biodiversity
 
The ABACUS label , developed by an Amazon-led working 
group, identifies carbon credits that exceed 
the existing requirements set by the leading standards 
setter Verra and its high-integrity Afforestation, 
Reforestation, and Revegetation methodology.
In 2025, Amazon collaborated with Verra to proactively 
engage auditors and restoration projects pursuing the 
ABACUS label.
Amazon is investing in carbon emissions removal credits 
produced by DAC technology. Beyond investing in DAC 
deployment, we established standards on credit quality—
requiring that projects fully account for the lifecycle carbon 
emissions of the removal activity itself to confirm that the 
credits we purchase represent genuine net climate benefit. 
Learn more about our approach to technological carbon 
dioxide removal 
Some pollutants are far worse for the climate than carbon 
emissions. Known as super pollutants, these gases and 
particulates can trap thousands of times more heat in the 
atmosphere, which means reducing them is one of the 
fastest ways to slow warming in the decades ahead. In 
2025, we expanded our carbon neutralization strategy to 
explore super pollutant segments like rice methane 
abatement and refrigerant destruction, recognizing the 
importance of addressing methane and other high-GWP 
greenhouse gases for achieving global climate targets. In 
March 2026, Amazon joined a coalition of buyers to launch 
the Super Pollutant Elimination Pledge
 , collectively 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 11 |

committing more than $100 million toward the 
elimination of super pollutants. 
Driving Collective Action
No single company can solve the climate crisis alone. We 
scale decarbonization solutions by collaborating with 
organizations across our industries, engaging and 
enabling our suppliers, and driving joint action projects. 
We create solutions and collaborate to spur innovation, 
scale solutions, and remove roadblocks for a 
lower-carbon future.
Another important lever is investing in emission reduction 
projects within our value chain—a strategy known as 
carbon insetting, which means funding real emission 
reductions relevant to how our business actually operates. 
In 2025, this included investing in improving manure 
management to reduce methane on dairy farms that 
supply products to our grocery stores, and substituting 
conventional fossil fuels with lower-carbon alternatives in 
the ships, planes, and trucks that carry our goods. These 
projects are often delivered through environmental 
attribute credits (EACs)—verified, market-based 
instruments that represent specific environmental benefits, 
such as one metric ton of avoided CO₂ emissions from a 
certified project. In 2025, Amazon's inset projects helped 
us reduce emissions by 199,400 metric tons of CO₂e.15
Catalyzing Industry Action and 
Innovation through The Climate Pledge
Amazon co-founded The Climate Pledge in 2019 as both 
a commitment and a catalyst—bringing companies 
together to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2040. By 
the end of 2025, 656 signatories across 62 industries and 
49 countries had joined, including the new addition of 16 
of Amazon's top suppliers. Strategic recruitment focused 
on hard-to-abate and underrepresented sectors, with 
fashion and beauty as a priority—by the end of 2025, 
51 new fashion and beauty brands had signed, increasing 
the total to 60. Beyond recruitment, The Climate Pledge 
drives impact through joint action projects that tackle 
shared decarbonization challenges—in 2025, nine 
projects brought together 44 signatories to advance 
lower-carbon industry solutions including:
• Electrifying Drayage Alliance (EDA)
 , a partnership 
between The Climate Pledge and Smart Freight Centre , 
launched in 2025, unites companies to accelerate the 
transition to electric drayage—the short-haul 
transportation of shipping containers from ports to 
warehouses. Electric drayage is an important 
component of decarbonizing the global road freight 
sector. The EDA includes global leaders across logistics, 
consumer goods, and other sectors.
• Laneshift
 , a public-private initiative in collaboration 
with C40 Cities and The Climate Pledge, accelerates the 
transition to zero-tailpipe-emission electric trucks and 
charging infrastructure in India, Brazil, and Mexico. In 
India, Laneshift completed 600 trips on the Bengaluru-
Chennai corridor in a first-of-its-kind e-truck highway 
demonstration, driving significant growth in e-truck 
orders and securing several long-term contracts. This is 
the kind of financing certainty needed to scale capital-
intensive technology. In addition, Laneshift assessed 
electric freight viability across sectors including 
pharmaceutical, e-commerce, and automotive, and 
developed a national electric freight highway 
framework. In Brazil, the Laneshift e-Dutra Coalition—
comprising C40 Cities, Smart Freight Centre, CALSTART, 
and other organizations—launched a project to deploy 
electric trucks and charging infrastructure along the Rio 
de Janeiro–São Paulo corridor, with the goal of 1,000 
electric trucks operating daily by 2030.
•
The Climate Pledge Building Decarbonization 
Program brings together signatories to reduce 
embodied carbon in building materials, scale mass 
timber, and accelerate efficiency and electrification in 
existing buildings. In 2025, the program launched an 
initiative to standardize mass timber building 
components and develop a buyers alliance
 with 
owners and developers of industrial facilities. The 
program also initiated a collaboration
 with the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Climate and 
Sustainability Consortium and Concrete Sustainability 
Hub to develop and test tools to reduce risk for lower-
carbon cement and concrete solutions.
Fostering Innovation Through 
Investment and Shared Expertise
Amazon’s Right Now Climate Fund
 supports nature 
conservation and climate resilience in communities 
worldwide. We also invest in early-stage climate innovation 
through two accelerator programs. The Amazon 
Sustainability Accelerator supports start-ups tackling 
energy, water, and waste challenges through expert-led 
workshops, mentoring, and leadership panels, with select 
companies piloting their innovations in Amazon's European 
operations in 2025. The Amazon Devices Climate Tech 
Accelerator helps climate tech companies fast-track 
technologies for potential integration into millions of 
Amazon devices. The 16-week program launched in July 
2025 with 14 companies, eight of which advanced to the 
next phase, which included virtual workshops with Amazon 
mentors and final pitches to executives in November 2025.
To amplify shared learnings and expertise, we provide 
free, publicly available resources through three platforms. 
The Sustainability Exchange
 is a resource hub designed 
to help organizations of all sizes advance their 
sustainability initiatives—offering playbooks, case studies, 
tools, and resources available in nine languages on topics 
including carbon emissions measurement, transitioning to 
carbon-free energy (with market-specific playbooks for 
the U.S., China, Vietnam, and India, developed by CEBA), 
decarbonizing buildings and transportation, reducing 
operational waste, and purchasing high-quality carbon 
credits. The Amazon Science Exchange
 develops and 
deploys cross-sector measurement tools, methodologies, 
datasets, and industry mechanisms that help accelerate 
innovation to solve complex, long-term sustainability 
challenges. The Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative
 
enhances access to high-value datasets to accelerate 
sustainability research, innovation, and collaboration by 
reducing the cost and time required to acquire and 
analyze large-scale environmental data. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 12 | 
See a full list of signatories at theclimatepledge.com

Catalyzing Climate Finance
Many technologies critical to decarbonization—including 
EVs, carbon-free energy, and lower-carbon fuels and 
materials—remain more expensive than legacy 
alternatives, in part because developers face capital 
constraints and policy risks that raise financing costs and 
slow deployment. Public finance alone cannot meet global 
climate investment needs, which is why private 
investment and corporate demand signals are essential.
Through the Climate Pledge Fund
 —our $2 billion 
venture investment program launched in 2020—we have 
invested in companies developing climate solutions across 
transportation, logistics, energy, and manufacturing. 
Building on this work, we launched our Climate Finance 
program in 2025 to catalyze decarbonization investments 
by providing long-term demand signals, unlocking access 
to financing for project developers, and establishing 
blended finance partnerships with development finance 
institutions and private investors. These partnerships use 
tools such as concessional loans, guarantees, and first-loss 
capital to reduce project risk, lower financing costs, and 
ultimately bring down the cost of carbon abatement—not 
just for Amazon, but for other buyers as these 
solutions scale.
Supporting Policies that Drive 
Decarbonization
Government policy can accelerate the deployment of 
emerging lower-carbon technologies necessary to achieve 
global decarbonization—or act as a barrier to innovation. 
Our global public policy team works with policymakers, 
multilateral organizations, industry associations, 
coalitions, and other partners to accelerate cost-effective 
decarbonization. We do this by scaling lower-carbon-
emissions fuels, advancing zero-tailpipe-emission vehicle 
deployment and associated infrastructure, and driving the 
deployment of carbon-free energy.
Our advocacy also extends to nongovernmental 
organizations that set global standards. We continued 
to advocate for updated carbon accounting guidelines 
for the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a co-founder of the 
Emissions First Partnership, a coalition committed to 
modernizing carbon accounting standards for the power 
sector. This work aims to accelerate grid 
decarbonization by supporting investments in carbon-
free energy, battery storage, or other mitigation 
solutions. We also participated in pilot testing the 
Advanced and Indirect Mitigation (AIM) Platform—a 
cross-sectoral, multi-stakeholder initiative that seeks to 
remove roadblocks to value chain mitigation and unlock 
sectoral decarbonization.
Learn more about how we advocate for issues that matter
 
Looking Ahead
We recognize that the path to being a more sustainable 
company is not a straight line. Though our emissions 
increased in 2025, we remain steadfast in our 
commitment to sustainability. We continue to scale the 
measurable progress we saw this year—in electric 
vehicles, energy efficiency, supplier engagement, lower-
carbon fuels, and the innovations that will define the next 
decade of decarbonization.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 13 | 
• Amazon Smart Thermostats can enable carbon 
emissions reductions and help save an average of 
approximately 8% of heating and cooling bills 
 in the U.S.
• AWS Sustainability Console , an AWS service that 
incorporates and replaces the previous Customer 
Carbon Footprint Tool, allows customers to measure, 
track, and reduce their estimated environmental impact 
across AWS services. The methodology behind 
sustainability calculations (e.g., carbon footprint and 
allocation to customers) is third-party verified and 
publicly available. Customers can access granular data 
by AWS region, service, usage account, and fiscal year, 
among others, across Scope 1, 2, and 3 carbon 
emissions, in convenient formats such as dashboard 
visualizations, comma-separated values files, and APls. 
Learn more about AWS Customer Carbon Footprint 
Methodology 
• Product sustainability fact sheets are available for 
Amazon devices and highlight each product's specific 
sustainability features, recycled material contents, and 
carbon footprints, which we calculate using Amazon 
Devices Product Carbon Footprint Methodology
 .
Lower-Carbon Products
We are committed to understanding the broader effects 
of the products and services we build, including how our 
devices and services may interact with customers' energy 
use and consumption patterns, and we seek to empower 
customers with tools to help them make more informed 
and sustainable choices. In 2025, we:
• Calculated and published the estimated product carbon 
footprints of 100% of our Amazon Grocery Private 
Brands food products, 64% of our Amazon Private 
Brands products, and 90% of Amazon Devices products 
that launched in 2025.
• Created a new tool to measure product carbon 
footprints in minutes rather than weeks and have been 
working with suppliers to provide high-quality, 
substantiated input data for use by the tool.
• Reduced carbon footprints in our non-food private 
brands through strategic material transitions, such as 
recycled polyester and U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol cotton
—a voluntary sustainability program that drives 
environmental data transparency, continuous 
improvement in U.S. cotton production, and lower 
carbon emissions compared to conventional 
alternatives. In 2025, Amazon Private Brands used 17% 
recycled polyester in apparel and 100% of the cotton 
used in apparel was from more sustainable sources. In 
2026, Amazon Private Brands will continue to increase 
the percentage of apparel made from U.S. Cotton.
• Continued expanding the number of Amazon devices 
that use Low Power Mode, as energy use is a significant 
component of the carbon footprint of Amazon devices. 
As of the end of 2025, 75% of Echo and Fire TV devices 
featured Low Power Mode, compared to over 71% in 
2024. We continue to issue over-the-air updates so that 
additional devices can also use this feature.
Amazon customers can shop for products that are more 
energy-efficient or have a lower carbon footprint on 
Amazon.com. Learn more about the Climate Pledge 
Friendly program and the sustainability features 
recognized in Climate Pledge Friendly

Water
Our Approach
Water is a shared and increasingly constrained resource, 
especially in high- and extreme-stress regions affected by 
climate change, population growth, and evolving 
technological demands. Amazon prioritizes responsible 
water use, using only what we need, managing it 
efficiently, and standing up water replenishment projects 
that restore water to the communities where we operate.
Amazon is working to support a more resilient and water-
secure future by reducing our global water footprint and 
prioritizing action to address water scarcity, access, and 
quality challenges, emphasizing regions of our operations 
with high and extreme water stress. We have conducted 
comprehensive water risk assessments, using tools such as 
the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas , to guide Amazon’s water use and investments in 
water reduction, reuse, and replenishment projects.
Our water strategy is built on the following approach:
• Reduce: Improve water use efficiency and minimize 
withdrawals through conservation practices and 
technologies and real-time monitoring
• Reuse: Source water from more sustainable alternatives 
such as reclaimed water, harvested rainwater, and 
stormwater to reduce reliance on fresh water
• Replenish: Invest in projects that restore watersheds, 
reduce water waste, and improve water access, 
availability, and quality in communities where we operate
Our Progress
Our water positive goals focus our efforts to conserve 
water through efficiency and reuse, complemented by our 
global portfolio of water replenishment projects.
Amazon applies water efficiency best practices across our 
global facilities, including low-flow fixtures and real-time 
leak detection though smart meters. In 2025, we 
expanded our global water metering and leak detection 
program to 330 sites, which we expect to save 83 million 
liters of water annually.
Water Positive Data Centers
In 2022, Amazon announced our goal of being water 
positive—returning more water to communities than we 
use—across global direct data center operations by 2030. 
By the end of 2025, we achieved 75% of this goal, 
up from 53% in 2024. We measure progress using our 
Water 
Positive Methodology .
To meet our water positive goal, we are working to minimize 
water use, source more sustainable alternatives, and invest in 
water replenishment. We aim to reduce total water 
withdrawals by improving our water efficiency, measured as 
Water Use Effectiveness (WUE), the liters of water withdrawn 
per kilowatt-hour (kWh) of IT load on average.
We prioritize reducing water use in regions with the highest 
water stress, which is defined by WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk 
Atlas as the measurement of the ratio of total water demand 
to available renewable surface and groundwater supplies, 
where higher values signal greater competition among users. 
In 2025, Amazon’s global leased, owned, and shared data 
centers withdrew 9.4 billion liters of water. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 14 | 
Amazon will be water positive 
across data centers by 2030, 
returning more water to 
communities than we use in our 
direct data center operations16
75%
Of the way toward meeting our 
data center water positive goal
0.12
L/kWh global Water Use 
Effectiveness (WUE) for Amazon 
data centers, a 20% improvement 
from 2024 and 52% since 2021
Less than
10%
Of the year water is used to cool 
data centers due to our Direct 
Evaporative Cooling design
130
Amazon data centers contracted to 
use reclaimed water for cooling 
across six countries
938M
Liters of cooling water reduced 
globally
298M
Estimated liters of water saved 
annually from on-site sewage 
treatment plants at 28 buildings
in India 
45
Water replenishment projects 
globally invested in by Amazon
9.4B
Liters of water returned to 
communities from active 
replenishment projects at the
end of 2025, with more than 18 
billion liters of total annual 
replenishment volume contracted 
for future years
Collective Action for 
Water Resilience
Collective action drives meaningful progress toward 
solving water challenges, reflected by our co-founding of 
a new initiative, the Water-AI Nexus Center of Excellence
 , 
where water utility providers, researchers, and technology 
companies develop and share best practices to advance 
water sustainability. The Water-AI Nexus has a dual 
purpose—advancing water sustainability in AI 
development while harnessing AI to solve critical water 
challenges. It seeks to support collaborators in developing 
innovative solutions, enhancing water efficiency, adopting 
more sustainable water sources, supporting community 
reuse projects, and investing in replenishment projects.
Learn more about the Principles for Sustainable Water 
Use by Data Centers 
Amazon will be water positive in 
India by 2027, returning more 
water to communities in India than 
we use in our direct operations16
120%
Water positive in India

In 2025, 48% of our total water withdrawals for our 
leased and owned data centers occurred in regions 
classified as low water stress, and 22% occurred in regions 
classified as high or extremely high water stress. 
Percent of Data Center Water Withdrawal by 
Water Stress Level 
Advancing Water Efficiency
We design Amazon data centers to be highly water 
efficient, using about one-seventh of what an average 
data center withdraws. Where weather permits, we use 
Direct Evaporative Cooling, which requires water for less 
than 10% of the year. By using cooling water sparingly 
and more efficiently, we reduce our electricity demand 
year-round—with the greatest reductions occurring 
during peak summer conditions when grid stress may be 
the highest. In some of our highest water stressed regions, 
including the Middle East, South Africa, and India, we do 
not use any water to cool our data centers.
Modern AI chips generate significantly more heat than 
traditional servers. These chips must be packed closely 
together to exchange data quickly, which concentrates 
heat in ways that outside air alone cannot always address.
We developed the In-Row Heat Exchanger (IRHX), which 
captures heat directly from high-density AI hardware at 
the rack before the heat spreads, reducing how often 
water-based cooling needs to run. As we add more AI 
racks with IRHX, we expect a 9% reduction in water use 
compared to evaporative air-cooled data centers once 
fully operational.
In 2025, we also scaled smart-metering technology across 
our global data center portfolio, enhancing real-time 
consumption monitoring that identifies leaks so they can be 
repaired, preventing further water losses. Collectively, these 
and other efforts reduced cooling water use globally by 938 
million liters in 2025, enabling reduction of our global data 
center WUE to 0.12 liters per kWh, a 20% improvement 
from 2024 and a 52% improvement from 2021.
Water Use Effectiveness in Amazon
Data Centers
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 % ∆ YoY
Water Use 
Effectiveness 
(L/kWh)
0.25 0.19 0.18 0.15 0.12 -20%
To further reduce dependence on external water sources, 
we operate on-site cooling water treatment systems to 
recirculate water more often through our cooling systems. 
As of the end of 2025, 31 of our data centers incorporated 
on-site water treatment. 
We also collaborate with peers through technology 
transfer and sharing best practices to improve water 
efficiency in shared facilities. For example, we 
collaborated in Singapore to implement a sidestream 
water treatment system that treats cooling tower water 
for reuse, reducing overall fresh water demand. 
Scaling Responsible Water Sources 
for Cooling
Amazon leads the top 10 data
 center operators in the 
number of locations utilizing reclaimed water , 
wastewater that has been treated to high standards 
for safe reuse in cooling systems. In 2025, 26 Amazon 
data centers used reclaimed water for cooling, 
preserving 849 million liters of potable water for 
communities and ecosystems.
As of the end of 2025, we have contracted 13 utilities 
to supply reclaimed water for cooling at 130 data centers 
across six countries. Altogether, we expect these 
commitments to preserve 6 billion liters of fresh water 
for community use annually. Across both operating 
and contracted reclaimed water systems, we plan to 
invest $1 billion in public water infrastructure and 
treatment upgrades. Learn more about our Reclaimed 
Water Project Portfolio 
We also capture rainwater on-site to further reduce 
reliance on potable water. As of the end of 2025, 
Amazon had installed rainwater collection systems at 
14 data centers in six countries, with nine new systems 
added in 2025.
Amazon data centers work directly with local water 
utilities, government agencies, and policymakers to 
establish and expand reclaimed water supply programs 
worldwide. In many regions, existing regulations do not 
explicitly allow reclaimed water for data center cooling, 
requiring us to collaborate with stakeholders to establish 
new use-case classifications and precedent-setting supply 
agreements. In Hong Kong, China, we achieved policy 
breakthroughs with the Water Supplies Department, 
which had previously restricted cooling towers to fresh 
water use only, paving the way for broader regional 
adoption of reclaimed water for cooling. In Virginia, U.S., 
we worked with Loudon Water to enable reclaimed water 
use in direct evaporative cooling systems, a first in the 
state, and have since partnered with central Virginia 
counties to develop similar frameworks. In Mississippi, 
U.S., Amazon became the first data center operator to
commit to reclaimed water for cooling, working with
Canton Municipal Utilities and Madison County
Wastewater Authority to preserve 314 million liters of
potable water annually while establishing a scalable
model across the state.
Learn more about our water stewardship efforts
 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 15 | 
We remove heat from our data centers while 
minimizing water use through innovative design and 
real-time monitoring.
17

Water Positive in India
India faces some of the world’s highest levels of water 
stress, holding 18% of the global population but only 4% 
of global fresh water resources . In 2024, we expanded 
our water commitments by establishing a new goal to 
become water positive across our direct operations in India 
by 2027, which includes operations buildings, corporate 
offices, and data centers. In 2025, we were 120% water 
positive in India, achieving our goal two years early. We 
achieved this progress by scaling on-site efficiency, water 
reuse initiatives, and increasing the size of our water 
replenishment portfolio in India.
Where water use is unavoidable in our direct operations, 
we work to reduce water usage by installing smart meters 
at key buildings to monitor and optimize water use, guided 
by our Smart Metering Playbook
 . These meters enable 
early leak detection and rapid response, conserving water 
and improving efficiency.
As of 2025, on-site sewage treatment plants at 28 buildings 
in India recycled wastewater, providing an estimated 298 
million liters of water annually for toilet flushing and 
irrigation. We are funding increased capacity for on-site 
sewage treatment plants at 23 fulfillment centers, 
expanding the treatment and reclamation of wastewater 
for non-potable applications such as cleaning and cooling.
Amazon is also implementing rainwater harvesting at 
operations buildings in India. In 2025, on-site rainwater 
harvesting pits collected approximately 178 million liters of 
water, which percolated back to groundwater, replenishing 
local water sources.
Replenishment across Amazon
Amazon’s investments in water replenishment projects 
increase water access, availability, and quality by restoring 
watersheds and bringing clean water, sanitation, and 
hygiene services to water-stressed communities.
At the end of 2025, we had invested in 45 replenishment 
projects globally, which we expect will collectively return 
more than 18 billion liters of water annually once 
completed. In 2025, water replenishment projects returned 
9.4 billion liters of water to communities.
We initiate water replenishment projects by engaging 
stakeholders—including water utilities, policymakers, local 
nonprofits, universities, and community members—to 
understand existing challenges and determine which 
projects provide the most benefit to the communities 
and ecosystems surrounding our operations. These 
collaborations take many forms, such as our Mississippi 
irrigation-efficiency project implemented through 
crop-intelligence company Arable in partnership with 
Mississippi State University .
In Mexico, we are collaborating with Xylem and 
Aquestia on pilot projects to deploy pressure 
management and leak detection technologies that 
minimize water loss from leaking pipes in Mexico City, 
Monterrey, and the Querétaro metropolitan area. We 
initially anticipated replenishing 2.5 billion liters of water 
annually once fully implemented, but early results show 
that we are on track to exceed those expectations.
In India, we supported the launch of a project to 
rehabilitate existing infrastructure and construct new 
water-saving features, such as percolation pits and 
recharge shafts, in the Yamuna River watershed
 .
We expect this project to replenish 400 million liters 
of water annually. Learn more about our water stewardship 
efforts and our water replenishment portfolio 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 16 | 
Supply Chain Water Use
Amazon works closely with suppliers to advance water
reduction initiatives. In 2025, funded projects included:
• Implementation of a livestock water recycling system 
with a member of Northwest Dairy Association, the 
cooperative that owns Whole Foods Market supplier 
Darigold. Farmers can use recycled water for irrigation 
or washing, promoting water conservation on the farm.
• Construction of bioswales—vegetated, sloped 
conveyance channels designed to mimic natural 
drainage—to slow, infiltrate, and filter runoff, thereby 
reducing erosion and sedimentation from Taylor Farm’s 
farming operations, adjacent agricultural lands, and the 
town of Chualar, California, prior to discharge to the 
Salinas River, an important irrigation source and 
ecologically significant habitat in the Salinas Valley. 
The bioswale system seeks to capture and treat 
stormwater runoff and support sediment control to 
minimize non-point source pollution entering the river.
Amazon customers can shop for products that meet
the Environmental Protection Agency’s WaterSense 
water efficiency standard on Amazon.com. 
Learn more about the Climate Pledge Friendly program
 
and the sustainability features recognized in Climate 
Pledge Friendly

Waste and 
Circularity 
Our Approach
We view waste as a defect, aiming to prevent it whenever 
possible. We draw on an industry standard waste 
management hierarchy that prioritizes prevention, then 
reduction, reuse, and recycling. To support this hierarchy, 
we seek to embed circular principles into our operations.
Each Amazon business faces distinct waste and circularity 
challenges—Amazon data center operations involve 
specialized hardware with complex lifecycles, fulfillment 
centers process high volumes of packaging and 
transportation materials, and grocery stores manage 
perishable foods and work within local waste recovery 
systems. These differences require business-specific 
strategies that address the unique operational realities 
and material flows of data centers, fulfillment networks, 
and retail locations.
Our waste strategy focuses on two priorities: using 
resources efficiently and maximizing recovery. We work to 
prevent waste from the start—through better product and 
packaging design, inventory management, and material 
sourcing—and reuse, repurpose, or donate items 
whenever possible. When materials cannot be reused or 
donated, we prioritize recycling and composting, followed 
by energy recovery, with landfill as a last resort. We also 
engage suppliers to reduce waste in our products and 
partner with organizations and local municipalities to 
improve recycling infrastructure and advance the 
transition to a more circular economy.
Our Progress
Use Resources Efficiently
We aim to minimize material input, extend product life, 
and reduce our reliance on single-use items in our day-to-
day operations to prevent waste when possible.
Preventing Product Waste
We focus on improving product handling to reduce damage 
and avoid returns that could become waste. We also 
prioritize extending the useful life of products and assets; 
and when customers return products, we assess, grade, and 
repair them as needed to be resold, redistributed, or 
donated. Our efforts include:
• Reducing overstock: Before removing overstock from 
our inventory, we try to sell it at a discount on Amazon 
Outlet . If we can’t, we return the inventory to vendors 
or sell it to wholesalers to be offered on secondary 
markets. In 2025, we sold 72 million retail sellers’ items 
on Amazon Outlet.
• Reducing damage: We take measures to reduce product 
damage at our warehouses and during shipping and 
handling, including implementing packaging standards 
to maintain product integrity at every stage of handling 
and delivery, using AI imaging technology to identify 
and replace damaged items before they go to the 
customer, and conducting in-depth analyses of product 
damage caused by our material handling equipment 
when it occurs. In 2025, we reduced the percentage of 
damaged items within Amazon’s operations by 21% 
compared to 2024.
• Continuing our product lifecycle support: Our Product 
Lifecycle Support program helps customers configure 
purchases and access repair guides, replacement parts, 
and service options for a growing range of items. In 
2025, this program prevented 6.4 million returns, 
an 11% increase from 2024.
• Expanding our repair programs: We offer customers 
repair of defective products through our qualified 
partners when possible. In 2025, our top repair categories 
included personal electronics and kitchen items.
• Facilitating electronics trade-in: Customers can trade 
in qualified used Amazon devices and other electronics 
in exchange for Amazon credit. Traded-in devices are 
either refurbished and resold or responsibly recycled 
through certified partners. In 2025, customers traded 
in 835,000 devices. Learn more about Amazon’s 
trade-in program
 
• Reselling customer returns: When products are 
returned, Amazon strives to give them a second life 
through resale or donation. We inspect each returned 
item to determine if it can be resold and relist products 
that meet our quality standards for sale as new, while 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 17 | 
5%
Reduction in waste per shipped unit 
compared to 2024
84%
Of waste was diverted from landfills 
and incineration without recovery82%
Of waste was recycled or composted
835K
Devices traded in through
Amazon Trade-In
6.4M 
Returns prevented from our Product 
Lifecycle Support program
Over
1M
Hard drive purchases avoided since 
2023 by consolidating functional 
drives from multiple aging racks into 
fewer, fully functional racks
225K
Metric tons of CO₂e prevented
by reusing and reselling data center 
hardware since 2020
Reduce food waste by 50% across 
U.S. and Europe operations by 20301816M 
Meals-equivalent donated in Europe
36M
Meals-equivalent donated in the U.S

others are graded and offered through Amazon Resale . 
We resell the majority of returned products as new. 
• Refurbishing products: When pre-owned products are 
in need of refurbishment, Amazon Renewed offers 
professionally inspected, cleaned, refurbished, tested, 
and discounted products backed by a minimum 90-day 
warranty sold by Amazon’s qualified selling partners. 
We offer customers the option to purchase previously 
used versions of 14% of the products they view.
• Providing recommerce services for independent third-
party sellers: Through our ReCommerce Services, we 
work with independent third-party sellers to resell, 
liquidate, or donate unsold and unwanted inventory. In 
2025, we helped sellers resell or donate 529 million 
items globally.
• Donating items: When repair or resale isn’t feasible, we 
donate remaining inventory. In 2025, we donated or 
supported our sellers to donate 216 million items 
worldwide. In addition, we donate supplies from our 
offices and fulfillment centers. Learn more about how 
Amazon donates surplus goods in the UK
 
Preventing Food Waste 
Amazon has set a goal to reduce food waste across our 
U.S. and Europe operations by 50% by 2030. We prioritize 
reducing surplus inventory, and when that is not possible, 
we focus on donation to reduce waste generated. In 2025, 
we donated the equivalent of 52 million meals globally—
including 16 million in Europe and 36 million in the U.S. 
We also track food waste intensity. In 2025, our European 
operations achieved a 49% reduction in food waste 
intensity compared to a 2021 baseline, and our U.S. 
operations achieved a 23% reduction.
Any remaining food waste follows the waste hierarchy, 
with as much as possible diverted to organic waste 
treatment. In 2025, human and animal consumption 
accounted for 99% of our total food handled in Europe 
and 97% of food handled in the U.S.
In 2025, we expanded programs that help keep surplus 
food out of waste streams. Whole Foods Market 
expanded use of “Enjoy Today” 50% off stickers and 
electronic shelf tags in stores to allow teams to 
dynamically discount items nearing their expiration date. 
Whole Foods Market also expanded its collaboration with 
Too Good To Go
 , an app that connects customers with 
unsold food at discounted prices, helping to prevent 
waste across 530 stores and saving the equivalent of
1.55 million meals in 2025.
When food cannot be donated or offered to customers at 
a discounted price at Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods 
Market stores, we aim to divert it via organic waste 
treatment programs, such as composting. In 2025, we 
continued to implement and expand these efforts at 671 
locations and diverted 102,700 tons of food waste.
We also collaborate with other organizations to prevent 
food waste. This includes the U.S. Food Waste Pact, a joint 
initiative led by ReFED and World Wildlife Fund that 
brings together food businesses from across the supply 
chain to collaborate on food waste reduction. The group 
developed roadmaps that outline specific actions to 
reduce food loss and align operations with national 
frameworks. For example, in 2025, Whole Foods Market 
contributed beef and dairy waste data for inclusion in a 
study to identify opportunities to advance sustainable 
practices in food production and retail.
Learn more about how Amazon donates meals to support 
food security efforts 
Reducing Waste through Technology
Amazon strives to make it easy for customers to discover 
products they love. We focus on reducing waste across the 
products and devices we make or sell by giving our 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 18 |

customers tools that minimize returns and extend product 
life. Augmented reality and virtual try-on features allow 
customers to visualize products within their own lives. 
They can view furniture in their home and apparel and 
fashion accessories on their figure before purchasing, 
helping to reduce purchases of products that do not 
match customers’ individual styles. Amazon's size and fit 
recommendation widget also helps shoppers choose the 
right fit for clothing prior to purchasing, generating 3.2 
billion size recommendations in 2025.
Designing Products for Durability 
and Circularity
Amazon continues to prioritize recycled materials in 
device design and manufacturing. In 2025, we launched 
30 new devices and accessories with a SCS Recycled 
Content or a Carbon Trust
 certification, which are 
recognized by our Climate Pledge Friendly program. By 
the end of 2025, components across Echo, Fire TV, Fire 
Tablets, and Kindle were made either predominantly or 
entirely from recycled materials—including 57% recycled 
plastic, 98% recycled yarn, 98% recycled aluminum, and 
90% recycled magnesium. Select Kindle Scribe models 
featured 100% recycled cobalt in batteries and 85% 
recycled tin in the solder used on printed circuit boards.
In addition to using more recycled materials in our 
devices, Amazon has made new technology features 
available through updates, including Alexa+ across Echo 
devices, Dialogue Boost in Fire TV devices, and new AI-
powered features for Ring cameras, reducing the need to 
replace devices to access new features.
Beyond design, we focus on keeping products and 
materials in circulation through industry collaboration and 
reuse initiatives. In 2025, Amazon partnered with Carbon 
Trust to develop a standardized methodology for 
calculating the carbon footprint of refurbished devices, 
with the work featured as a case study in the Circular 
Electronics Partnership (CEP) X Carbon Trust report on The 
Carbon Impact of Circular Electronics , building a 
consistent approach to carbon accounting across the 
circular electronics industry.
Preventing Waste in Operations and 
Office Buildings
Our operations rely on materials and equipment such as 
packaging for transportation, pallets for movement within 
fulfillment centers, office furniture, storage racks, 
electronic equipment, and conveyor systems. To reduce 
waste from these items, we design modular equipment 
and components that improve efficiency and extend asset 
life. These versatile systems can support multiple uses, 
which reduces material waste, simplifies maintenance, 
and allows components to be reused or repaired instead 
of replaced.
We also work to avoid single-use materials by sourcing 
lower-waste alternatives and conducting waste stream 
analyses. In 2025, we expanded the use of universal 
plastic pallets and GoCarts —reusable and repairable 
cart systems that replace traditional wooden pallets and 
cardboard containers—avoiding the use of 35 million 
wood pallets. In our fulfillment centers, we piloted the use 
of high-performance shrink wrap and reusable wraps, 
reducing the need for constant replenishment. At our 
North American offices, we began using durable cups, 
plates, and cutlery to reduce single-use items, following 
the lead of offices in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
We also continued programs to store, track, and transfer 
unused assets between sites and facilitate coordination 
with charities for items no longer in use. In 2025, these 
initiatives enabled the reuse or donation of 343,000 assets 
and materials.
Working with Our Suppliers to 
Prevent Waste
All final assembly sites worldwide for Echo, Kindle, Ring, 
Fire Tablet, and Fire TV devices achieved or renewed UL 
Solutions’ Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) certification at the 
Silver level or higher in 2025.19 In addition to certifications 
at individual sites, we engaged UL Solutions to conduct 
system-level ZWTL assurance for the first time. UL 
Solutions examined 2025 waste data from 89 supplier sites 
across our Devices business and verified, to a reasonable 
level of assurance, a 99% waste diversion rate, including 
6% through thermal processing with energy recovery.
Maximizing Resource Efficiency in 
Data Centers
We focus on three pillars to embed circularity in our data 
center operations: design better, operate longer, 
and recover more. Through smarter design, extended 
component lifecycles, and responsible end-of-life 
management, Amazon data centers reduce waste, 
avoid carbon emissions, and keep valuable materials 
in circulation.
Cloud circularity begins with design. Amazon focuses on 
designing data center equipment that operates longer, 
avoids excess materials, and enables repair and reuse—
minimizing waste from the start. In 2025, we continued 
enabling additional data center hardware components to 
be reused, including central processing units. We are also 
steadily increasing the use of recycled content into 
components, such as piloting air-cooled heat sinks with 
50% recycled aluminum.
When possible, we seek to use equipment for as long as 
it is operationally efficient. We are continually improving 
operational capabilities and extending the life of 
functional equipment. Amazon programs have avoided 
the purchase of over one million new hard drives 
since 2023.
We prioritize improving repair, reuse, and recycling 
practices to recover more value from decommissioned 
data center assets. We leverage Amazon’s re:Cycle Reverse 
Logistics (RRL) to securely assess used data center 
hardware for repair, refurbishment, and reuse, allowing 
equipment to be redeployed into inventory or sold to 
third parties. Since this program was launched in 2020, 
reverse logistics vendors like RRL have enabled Amazon to 
source retired components for reuse in data centers or for 
resale, which prevented 225,000 metric tons of CO2e.20
For components that cannot be reused, we use RRL hubs, 
along with specialized vendors, to increase the amount of 
critical raw materials extracted and recovered. In 2025, 
RRL retained UL Solutions’ highest Zero Waste certification 
(Platinum level) for its Ireland facility and is pursuing 
certifications across additional reverse logistics locations.
Extending equipment life and accelerating recovery through 
technology remains a top priority. In 2025, RRL facilities 
began using AI-powered robots to demanufacture AWS 
equipment. The machines, developed by robotics start-up 
Molg, securely disassemble servers into components to be 
securely reused or recycled. The partnership started in 
2024, when Amazon invested in Molg’s seed round 
through The Climate Pledge Fund
 .
Maximize Recovery
We recognize that some waste is unavoidable, and when 
waste does occur, we prioritize responsible disposal 
strategies that align with the waste hierarchy.
Managing Our Waste
Amazon tracks our waste to understand how efficiently 
we manage materials as our business grows. While overall 
waste volume may increase as we ship more products to 
our customers, we focus on continually reducing the 
amount of waste generated across our business. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 19 |

Monitoring waste intensity—grams of waste produced per 
shipped unit—helps us gauge progress and identify 
opportunities for improvement. In 2025, Amazon reduced 
our waste per shipped unit by 5% compared to 2024.
We also gauge progress by measuring the percentage of 
our waste diverted to recycling, composting, and other 
material recovery processes—avoiding landfills and 
incineration without energy recovery. In 2025, we diverted 
84% of our waste from landfill, including 82% through 
recycling or composting and 2% through incineration with 
energy recovery. Landfill or incineration without energy 
recovery accounted for 16% of our waste.
Waste and Landfill Diversion
2022 2023 2024 2025
Recycled 79% 82% 83% 82% 
Incineration with 
Energy Recovery 3% 2% 2% 2% 
Incineration without 
Energy Recovery and 
Landfill 
 18% 16% 15% 16% 
Reducing Waste in Our Fulfillment 
Centers
Our fulfillment operations cover our largest materials 
footprint, with transportation and handling materials (such 
as cardboard, plastic, pallets, racks, totes, etc.) representing 
our main waste streams. Cardboard and wood represent 
64% of Amazon’s operational waste footprint, and we 
recycle almost 100% of it.
In 2025, we continued to expand recycling solutions for 
self-adhesive label backing, enabling recycling for the 
backing at U.S. operations buildings while also testing 
approaches to recycle additional label backing types in the 
UK. To improve recycling at smaller sites that don't 
generate enough material on their own, we created a hub-
and-spoke system—collecting materials like shrink wrap 
and label backing paper from multiple locations and 
transporting them to central hubs where we can meet 
minimum volumes for recycling. Learn more about our 
innovative material recycling programs
 
Supplier Collaboration for Circular 
Waste Solutions
In 2025, we expanded our partnership with Intuitive 
AI across our North America fulfillment centers. 
We continue to deploy their Oscar Sort
 AI recycling 
assistant, which identifies materials in real time to reduce 
contamination in waste streams. The system gives 
employees instant feedback to improve sorting.
We are also using Oscar Pixel
 , an Intuitive AI waste 
optimization solution, to analyze opportunities to divert 
more waste from landfills and uncover operational 
improvements. In Europe, we work with vendors to 
conduct secondary sortation of mixed waste streams to 
recover additional materials missed during initial sorting.
To support overall waste management objectives, we 
have established contractual requirements with 
specialized waste service providers to divert waste and 
report waste data. In 2025, we also developed an AI 
system to identify the material composition of unsellable 
or non-donatable inventory, such as multilayer plastics, 
certain textiles, and certain electronics, to be sorted and 
recycled more effectively.
Amazon collaborates with others to scale innovative 
solutions. For example, Mill
 produces commercial 
devices that can process food scraps into a chicken feed 
ingredient intended for Whole Foods Market's private 
brands egg suppliers. Whole Foods Market’s innovative 
collaboration with Mill creates a closed-loop opportunity 
to turn waste into a valuable resource.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 20 | 
Amazon customers can shop for products that contain 
recycled materials on Amazon.com. Learn more about the 
Climate Pledge Friendly program and the sustainability 
features recognized in Climate Pledge Friendly

Packaging
Our Approach
Amazon delivers millions of packages every day, and we 
prioritize getting orders to customers quickly, safely, and 
with minimal delivery packaging. We focus on avoiding 
unnecessary packaging when possible, reducing delivery 
packaging volume and weight, prioritizing paper 
packaging designed to work with local residential 
recycling systems, and improving the recycled content in 
our packaging materials.
Amazon is increasing the use of paper-based packaging, 
supported by automation for made-to-fit packaging and 
materials innovation. This approach enables us to reduce 
plastic use while prioritizing recyclable materials. Where 
virgin fiber is necessary, we prioritize sourcing from 
regions with low deforestation risks and are enhancing 
supply chain transparency. Suppliers commit to meeting 
the sustainable sourcing standards outlined in our Supply 
Chain Standards , which focus on sourcing materials in a 
way that respects local communities and protects 
ecosystems. Learn more about how we are working to 
address deforestation
 
Our packaging strategy is rooted in four pillars: Avoid—
shipping products in their original packaging when 
possible; Optimize—using automation and AI to 
determine the minimum, lightest, right-sized packaging 
needed; Transform—prioritizing household-recyclable 
materials and reducing single-use plastic; and Innovate—
working across public and private sectors to create more 
sustainable packaging solutions and improve recycling 
infrastructure globally.
Our Progress
Avoid
Shipping products without additional delivery packaging 
is one of the most effective ways we can reduce the 
amount of packaging material we use. Through our Ships 
in Product Packaging program, we ship eligible items in 
their original manufacturer packaging without additional 
Amazon delivery materials, reducing material use and 
shipment weight while maintaining product integrity.
In 2025, we shipped 11% of global shipments without 
additional Amazon packaging. Since we launched the 
Ships in Product Packaging program in 2020, 7.9 billion 
packages across North America and Europe used only the 
manufacturers’ packaging and an Amazon shipping label.
We continue to support this program by evaluating eligibility 
for additional sellers. In 2025, we qualified 28 million unique 
products for this program globally. In 2025, we also 
enhanced our certification process through AI 
implementation, utilizing image recognition technology to 
help determine what products may be eligible.
Amazon currently ships items that are eligible for Ships in 
Product Packaging together with ineligible items when 
possible, to reduce the overall number of shipments. This 
may result in using additional packaging material that 
could otherwise be avoided. We are piloting a new 
initiative in 2026 to prevent over-boxing of eligible 
products when they are shipped alongside ineligible items.
Optimize
Optimizing our packaging means striking a balance 
between protection, efficiency, and material usage. We 
focus on right-sized delivery packaging tailored to 
products and their delivery journey—lighter, more flexible 
packaging uses less material and takes up less space in 
transit, allowing us to use fewer trucks.
An important enabler of packaging optimization is our 
regionalization efforts in the U.S., which positions 
inventory closer to customers and helps reduce the 
number of handling points and shorten delivery routes. 
This effort increases the speed of delivery to our 
customers and enables the use of lighter packaging 
materials, such as flexible paper packaging, which is up to 
90% lighter than comparable cardboard boxes.
We also leverage AI to identify the most efficient 
packaging solutions for millions of packages and order 
combinations. Our models analyze product characteristics
—such as shape and protection requirements—alongside 
customer feedback to recommend packaging that 
protects items while minimizing packaging materials.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 21 | 
11%
Of packages globally shipped 
without additional Amazon 
packaging as part of the Ships in 
Product Packaging program 21
28M
Unique products certified for the 
Ships in Product Packaging program 
globally
288M
Single-use plastic bags avoided by 
retrofitting automated packaging 
machines across North America, up 
from 134 million in 2024
73% 
Of shipments in North America were 
recyclable in household waste 
streams, up from 63% in 2024
5.4M
Metric tons of packaging materials 
avoided in North America and 
Europe since 2015
224K
Metric tons of single-use plastic 
packaging avoided globally
since 2020
7.9B
Packages shipped without additional 
Amazon packaging in North America 
and Europe since 2020
Amazon engineers retrofitted plastic packaging 
machines to create custom-sized paper packaging.

By using lighter, right-sized packaging, we have avoided 
5.4 million metric tons of packaging materials in North 
America and Europe since 2015.
Beyond system-wide improvements, we continue to refine 
delivery packaging at the regional level. In 2025, we 
started rolling out a 54% smaller shipping label for small 
ship packages in Japan, reducing overall adhesive and 
paper use by 6%.
Transform
Our packaging engineers and material scientists continue 
to research and implement innovative new packaging 
solutions that incorporate fewer plastics, use less material 
overall, and provide the same level of protection to 
products during shipping. Through these efforts, we have 
avoided 223,616 metric tons of single-use plastic 
packaging globally since 2020. In 2025, we reduced our 
total plastic packaging globally from 74,137 metric tons in 
2024 to 74,073 metric tons in 2025. 
This progress stems from deploying custom box-making 
machines and retrofitting automated plastic bag 
packaging machines across fulfillment centers in the U.S. 
and Europe to now make made-to-fit paper bags
 . In 
North America, we avoided 288 million plastic bags in 
2025, and 52% of fulfillment centers in North America did 
not ship plastic delivery packaging. As a result, we saw a 
year-over-year decrease in the number of shipments that 
contained single-use plastic delivery packaging, from 65% 
of shipments in 2023, to 37% of shipments in 2024, to 
27% of shipments in 2025. This means that, in 2025, 73% 
of shipments in North America were recyclable in 
household waste streams, up from 63% in 2024. In 
Europe, customers have been able to recycle all delivery 
packaging with their household recycling since 2023.
We tailor our approach to replace single-use plastics with 
recyclable alternatives in response to country-specific 
Single-Use Plastic Delivery 
Packaging by Region 22
Single-Use Plastic Packaging Used (MT)
Region 2023 2024 2025 % Δ YoY
Europe 877 894 1,199 34%
North America 83,513 68,679 68,196 -1%
Rest of World 4,308 4,564 4,678 2%
Global Total 88,698 74,137 74,073 0%
Single-Use Plastic Packaging Avoided since 2020 (MT) 
Region 2023 2024 2025 % Δ YoY
Europe 14,600 20,660 26,935 30%
North America 41,600 90,932 149,096 64%
Rest of World 24,300 40,470 47,585 18%
Global Total 80,500 152,062 223,616 47%
% Outbound Shipments that Contain Plastic 
Region 2023 2024 2025 PP* Δ YoY
Europe 0% 0% 0% 0
North America 65% 37% 27% -10
Rest of World 14% 16% 10% -6
Global Total 45% 26% 19% -7
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 22 | 
*Percentage Point

challenges. These efforts are being expanded to include 
shipments from Egypt, Japan, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, 
Singapore, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates. 
In cases where eliminating single-use plastics is not yet 
feasible, we work to increase the proportion of recycled 
content in our plastic materials.
Innovate
Innovation is a cornerstone of Amazon’s packaging 
strategy, enabling us to explore and scale solutions that go 
beyond incremental improvements. In 2025, Amazon 
pursued innovative solutions for hard-to-recover materials
—particularly plastics that are difficult to recycle through 
conventional systems.
To explore innovative packaging solutions in India, Amazon 
and the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee are 
collaborating to turn agricultural waste into high-quality 
paper mailers. IIT Roorkee’s processes crop waste into a 
usable pulp, which is then washed and strained through
a screen to remove impurities and maintain consistent 
quality. After a pressing and drying process, the resulting 
paper is ready for manufacturing into paper mailers that 
meet our durability and recyclability specifications.
Amazon reduces packaging at scale by deploying 
automated, made-to-fit packaging technology. Beginning 
in 2025, we installed automated packaging machines
in European fulfillment centers that create custom-sized 
cardboard boxes and paper bags in real time,
precisely matching packaging to each item, avoiding 
excess material. 
Polyester-based biodegradable plastics, or biopolyesters, 
are made from renewable resources, are compostable, and 
easier to recycle than conventional plastics. Amazon 
collaborated with the National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory to develop a novel recycling technology and 
worked with Glacier AI vision systems in 2024 and 2025 to 
identify biopolyester packaging in mixed waste streams. 
This work revealed that packaging with consistent, visible 
features such as shape, color, texture, and labeling can be 
accurately recognized by AI vision and sorted for recycling 
with robotics. This enabled us to work with startup 
company EsterCycle
 to produce closed loop bioplastics. 
In parallel, Amazon piloted biopolyester materials in new 
packaging applications such as compostable produce 
bags, protective bags for liquids, and book wrapping to 
test material performance. 
Through these efforts, Amazon is shaping the future of 
sustainable packaging—one that is data-informed, more 
sustainably designed, and built to meet the evolving 
needs of customers and the planet.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 23 | 
Inside Amazon's Sustainable Materials Innovation 
Lab, engineers test new packaging materials—
examining everything from strength to how well they 
can keep food fresh.
In-Store and Product
Packaging
Reducing packaging, especially plastic packaging, 
and increasing recyclability and recycled content are 
also priorities for our product and in-store packaging 
across Amazon.
Grocery
Whole Foods Market continued to roll out more 
sustainable in-store packaging options. Through the 
introduction of stronger Forest Stewardship Council-
certified paper bags at checkout, Whole Foods Market 
reduced the need for double bagging and avoided the use 
of 51 million checkout bags in North America in 2025.
Amazon Devices
In 2025, 77% of new devices featured 100% recyclable 
packaging in the U.S., with 31 devices in total, down from 
42 in 2024 due to the types of devices released in 2025. 
Our packaging reduces reliance on virgin tree-based and 
bleached fibers, resulting in an average of 95% of wood 
fiber-based materials from responsibly managed forests 
or recycled sources used in packaging across our device 
product line.

Biodiversity
Our Approach
Biodiversity—the variety of living species on Earth and the 
habitats, ecosystems, and natural processes that support 
them—is essential to planetary health, community well-
being, and long-term business resilience. Yet habitat loss 
from the expansion of agriculture, urban areas, and 
infrastructure has led to a decline in biodiversity around 
the world. The complexity of measuring ecosystem and 
habitat health, limited supply chain traceability across 
countries and regions, and inconsistent biodiversity 
regulations complicate efforts to reduce biodiversity loss. 
Amazon recognizes the urgency of this crisis and the 
important role companies can play to prevent habitat loss 
or conversion and restore biodiversity.
Amazon's approach to biodiversity follows a mitigation 
hierarchy that prioritizes avoidance and reduction of high-
value habitat loss or conversion, focused on three areas: 
mitigating biodiversity loss in building construction—
seeking to avoid and minimize impacts related to siting, 
constructing, and operating our facilities; reducing habitat 
conversion and restoring biodiversity in our supply chain
—responsibly sourcing agricultural commodities and 
working with suppliers to restore biodiversity; and 
restoring biodiversity in our communities—contributing to 
nature conservation and restoration in sensitive 
ecosystems, supported by our $100 million commitment 
through the Right Now Climate Fund.
Amazon supports scaling science-based solutions to 
address biodiversity challenges. As one example, we 
commissioned the creation of the European Biodiversity 
Metric (EBM) , an open-source measurement method for 
assessing continental Europe's natural habitats to help 
advance biodiversity protection efforts across Europe and 
demonstrate that rigorous biodiversity assessment can be 
integrated into business foundation at scaling.
Our Progress
Mitigating Biodiversity Loss in 
Building Construction
To mitigate potential effects on natural habitats from 
Amazon’s built environment, we have developed metrics, 
guidance, and tools that promote best practices for 
preventing habitat loss and enhancing on-site 
biodiversity. The Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG) requirements 
in England, which came into effect in 2024, catalyzed 
these efforts by requiring a minimum of 10% 
improvement of a site’s biodiversity value after 
development compared to its predevelopment baseline.23 
To meet these requirements, Amazon developed a 
biodiversity mitigation framework, setting out rules and 
mechanisms for avoidance, minimization, and 
compensation, which has been foundational in scaling 
biodiversity assessment practices to new regions.
In 2025, Amazon evaluated 40 new sites in the UK to 
assess the potential change in biodiversity value of a site 
upon development. Our use of a new tool, BNG.AI™, 
allowed for rapid evaluation of the biodiversity value of 
potential development sites. This third-party solution uses 
satellite imagery, AI, and machine learning to identify and 
assess habitat type and condition, enhancing the speed, 
accuracy, and overall efficiency of biodiversity assessments.
Following site assessments, Amazon applies our 
Biodiversity Valuation and Planning Model (BPVM) to guide 
on-site biodiversity enhancements at our operations sites 
in the UK. The BPVM uses biodiversity assessment data and 
a cost engine to model different development scenarios 
and identify the most effective options for minimizing 
habitat loss and enhancing biodiversity. This includes 
evaluating trade-offs between design choices, restoration 
opportunities, and long-term ecological benefits.
In 2025, we evaluated biodiversity conditions at 55 
building sites outside the UK, implementing the scalable 
approach developed in the UK to assess the biodiversity 
value of potential sites in additional regions.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 24 | 
95
New Amazon building sites in 
Europe, North America, and India 
evaluated for habitat conditions 
prior to development
33
Of 35 goals and ambitions
 
achieved related to responsibly 
sourcing commodities and 
promoting animal welfare
100%
Of Whole Foods Market and Amazon 
Private Brands beef, cocoa, coffee, 
and tea were sourced from regions 
of low deforestation risk in 2025
61%
Of fresh produce, and 34% of all 
products, sold at Whole Foods 
Market were organic
#1
Ranking for Whole Foods Market on 
Friends of the Earth’s Bee-Friendly 
Retailer Scorecard for the third year 
in a row
72.6K
Hectares of land protected or 
restored through biodiversity- and 
nature-related contributions and 
investments by the Right Now 
Climate Fund since 2019, supporting 
2,200 species, planting 2.6 million 
trees, and benefiting 2.4 million 
community members with increased 
access to nature
For projects in the UK, Amazon adopted use of an
AI tool, BNG.AI™, enabling rapid assessment of the
biodiversity value of potential development sites.

Reducing Habitat Conversion
and Restoring Biodiversity in Our 
Supply Chain
Commodity Sourcing
The production of agricultural commodities is a major 
driver of land conversion and biodiversity loss, and 
Amazon recognizes that our sourcing and business 
activities can contribute to these pressures through the 
materials used in Amazon’s private brands products and 
delivery packaging. Our strategy to address these effects 
focuses on measuring and seeking opportunities to reduce 
the land footprint and habitat conversion risk associated 
with these commodities.
In 2022, Amazon committed to reducing deforestation risks 
from products containing palm oil, paper, beef, soy, cocoa, 
coffee, and tea. In addition, Amazon established clear goals 
and ambitions centered on animal welfare, sustainable 
seafood, and materials to strengthen our approach to 
responsible sourcing.
Whole Foods Market and Amazon Private Brands achieved 
33 of 35 commodities goals and ambitions, including 
sourcing 100% of Whole Foods Market and Amazon 
Private Brands beef, cocoa, coffee, and tea from regions of 
low deforestation risk.
Amazon remains committed to mitigating deforestation in 
our soy supply chains. The majority of the soy used by 
Amazon Private Brands North America and Whole Foods 
Market private brands products comes from domestic 
sources with minimal deforestation risk. We did not meet 
our goal to source 100% deforestation-free soy, but we 
are committed to continue working toward our ambition. 
In 2025, 3Keel, a third-party consultancy, confirmed that 
Amazon Private Brands Europe increased the percentage 
of verified Deforestation- and Conversion-Free (DCF) soy 
in our supply chain to 10%, from 6% in 2024. The 
remaining 90% supported deforestation-free production 
via mass balance and regional credits.24 
We also fell short of our goal to source 100% of Amazon 
Grocery Private Brands palm oil from regions of low 
deforestation risk or with full supply chain traceability, 
achieving 94% compliance in Amazon Private Brands 
North America. Whole Foods Market and Amazon Private 
Brands Europe both achieved 100% compliance.
In 2025, we gathered data to quantify baseline habitat 
conversion risk and land use footprints for our four main 
sourcing businesses—Amazon Private Brands, Print on 
Demand, Amazon Grocery Private Brands, and Packaging. 
This work will inform future enhancements to our 
sourcing standards and practices.
Learn more about our commitments and progress in 
materials and agricultural commodities sourcing
 
Collective Action for Conservation
Whole Foods Market works to promote biodiversity 
through its long-standing support of “climate-smart 
agriculture”—an approach to farming that supports 
environmental health, including the promotion of 
biodiversity. Whole Foods Market has a commitment to 
organic and regenerative agriculture, two approaches that 
employ climate-smart strategies. In 2025, 34% of all 
products sold at Whole Foods Market—and 61% of fresh 
produce sold—were organic.
Whole Foods Market continues to deepen its work with 
Mad Agriculture
 to enhance farm viability, protect 
pollinators, improve soil health, and support water 
retention. Together with 20 food and beverage brands, 
Whole Foods Market and Mad Agriculture launched a 
wilding pilot in 2025 to plant and maintain 1,000 acres of 
reconstructed prairie, most of which are on farms that 
supply ingredients to brands Amazon sells. The pilot raised 
$1 million and committed technical support to a coalition 
of companies investing in biodiversity restoration. 
Whole Foods Market also supports pollinator health 
through its industry-leading Quality Standards. Under the 
Whole Foods Market Pollinator Health Policy for Fresh 
Produce and Floral, all fresh produce and floral suppliers 
must implement an integrated pest management system, 
which reduces the need for chemical pesticides. For the 
third year in a row, Whole Foods Market was ranked the top 
retailer on Friends of the Earth’s Bee-Friendly Retailer 
Scorecard .
Restoring Biodiversity in Our 
Communities
Amazon contributes to biodiversity preservation and 
restoration beyond our direct operations through 
investments in nature-based solutions and collaborative 
conservation efforts, which include the following:
• High-quality nature-based carbon credits that reduce 
deforestation at scale. Learn more about nature-based 
carbon credits
 
• Water replenishment projects that restore natural fresh 
water sources, improve water availability, and enhance 
biodiversity in surrounding ecosystems. Learn more 
about how we are replenishing water 
The Right Now Climate Fund is Amazon’s $100 million 
commitment to restore ecosystems, support biodiversity, 
and benefit communities where we operate.
Since 2019, through the Right Now Climate Fund, we have 
invested in projects across 16 countries, protected and 
restored 72,600 hectares of land, supported 2,200 species, 
planted 2.6 million trees, and benefited 2.4 million people 
with increased access to nature.
In 2025, the Fund enabled projects including:
• In Australia, the launch of an ambitious species recovery 
program for nine threatened species
• In the Netherlands, the inaugural harvest of the world’s 
first commercial-scale seaweed farm located among 
offshore wind turbines 
• In Belgium, technology solutions to enhance biodiversity 
monitoring and visitor experience in Brabantse Wouden 
National Park 
• In India, a plastic cleanup project to protect flamingo 
habitat in the Mumbai watershed 
The Fund also supported the development of a 
methodological framework to calculate water, biodiversity, 
and carbon benefits from peatland restoration in Ireland. 
The first national methodology of its kind, the Peatland 
Standard is being adopted by additional companies 
developing peatland restoration projects in Ireland, helping 
advance shared sustainability goals.
Learn more about the Right Now Climate Fund project 
portfolio 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 25 | 
Amazon customers can shop for products that promote 
biodiversity, good farming practices, or sustainable 
forestry on Amazon.com. Learn more about the Climate 
Pledge Friendly program and the sustainability features 
recognized in Climate Pledge Friendly

Sustainable 
Shopping
Our Approach
The Climate Pledge Friendly program and its green leaf 
icon—visible across the Amazon.com online shopping 
experience on product display pages and in search—
marked its fifth anniversary in 2025. Since its launch in 
2020, we have worked to enable customers to make more 
sustainable choices and have made progress over the past 
five years. At the end of 2025, 10% of products purchased 
by customers in the U.S. included a sustainability feature
 
based on approved Climate Pledge Friendly certifications, 
and 38% of Amazon Private Brands sales were from 
products recognized by Climate Pledge Friendly 
certifications. We aim to continue making it easier for 
customers to identify these choices by highlighting 
products with trusted third-party certifications and 
offering clear and credible information to guide their 
decisions. USDA Organic, for example, identifies products 
made free from genetically modified organisms and 
artificial additives.
Research shows that consumer interest in Climate Pledge 
Friendly-badged products continues to rise. An 
independent study published in the Harvard Business 
Review in 2025 found that products with sustainability 
certifications experienced a 14% increase in consumer 
demand over an eight-week period following certification
—underscoring the momentum behind the program’s 
expansion. This study builds on a 2024 study by the 
Marshall School of Business at 
the University of Southern 
California , with Amazon support, which reported a 
12.5% increase in overall sales for certified products 
within the first year.25
Our Progress
Expanding the Climate Pledge 
Friendly Program
Climate Pledge Friendly enables customers to discover 
products with sustainability features through badging 
and detailed product information across more than 62 
trusted certifications as of the end of 2025. In 2025, five 
new certifications were added to the Climate Pledge 
Friendly portfolio, reflecting the program’s intentionally 
rigorous evaluation and approval process. These 
certifications span features such as recycled materials
 , 
organic content , energy efficiency , and worker well-
being and are selected for their transparency, scientific 
rigor, and credibility.
At the end of 2025, 4.2 million products recognized by 
certifications in our Climate Pledge Friendly program were 
available to customers for purchase in 14 countries, an 
86% increase compared to 2024. Since 2020, 187 million 
customers switched to Climate Pledge Friendly-badged 
products, including 43 million in 2025. Adoption by 
businesses also expanded, with 93,100 Amazon Business 
customers implementing preferential buying policies for 
Climate Pledge Friendly-badged products in 2025, up 
from 75,200 in 2024.
In 2025, Amazon worked to broaden Climate Pledge 
Friendly’s selection and choice for customers. We added 
badged products from over 18,000 new selling partners, 
and expanded the recognized certification portfolio to 
reflect regional needs and sustainability priorities. 
In agriculture and food, we added Australian Organic
 , 
Aquaculture Stewardship Council , regenagri for 
regenerative agriculture, and COSMOS Organic for 
natural and organic cosmetics. We also introduced 
carbon-focused certifications including the ClimeCo 
Certified Product Program .
In early 2026, Amazon launched a new feature for U.S.- 
based merchants using the Buy with Prime feature to display 
Climate Pledge Friendly’s trusted green leaf icon and 
sustainability features badge on certified products on their 
websites, along with claims and certification details.
Number of Climate Pledge Friendly-
Badged Products
Year 2022 2023 2024 2025 % ∆ YoY
Number of 
Products 550K 1.4M 2.2M 4.2M 86% 
Making Choices that Matter
In 2025, Amazon introduced a new feature, Your 
Sustainability Choices , to help customers better 
understand and celebrate their more sustainable 
purchases when reviewing their previous orders. 
The feature displays customers’ individual choices across 
three dimensions: products purchased with sustainability 
certifications, orders shipped in original product 
packaging , and consolidated deliveries that reduced 
carbon emissions .
We enable customers to make more sustainable choices 
by giving used inventory a second chance, providing tools 
to support customer decision-making, and offering repair 
and trade-in services, when possible. 
Learn more about our waste avoidance programs
 
We are committed to understanding the broader 
environmental effects of the products and services we 
build, including how our devices and services may interact 
with customers' energy use and consumption patterns, and 
we seek to empower customers with tools to help them 
make more informed and sustainable choices. 
Learn more about our lower-carbon products and 
services 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 26 | 
4.2M
Products recognized by 
certifications in the Climate Pledge 
Friendly program available for 
customers for purchase, up from 
over 2.2 million in 2024
10%
Of products purchased by customers 
in the U.S. included a sustainability 
feature based on Climate Pledge 
Friendly-approved certifications
187M
Customers switched from a 
conventional product to a product 
recognized by the Climate Pledge 
Friendly program since 2020 26
38%
Of Amazon Private Brands sales 
were from products recognized by 
certifications in the Climate Pledge 
Friendly program, up from 29% 
in 2024

Human Rights
Our Approach
Amazon’s value chain affects millions of people globally, 
including those beyond our direct operations. With this 
scale, we have an important role to play in supporting 
human rights and the fundamental dignity of the people 
throughout our value chain, including our employees, 
suppliers and their workers, customers, and communities 
connected to our business.
We work to create an environment where our employees 
and individuals within our value chain are treated with 
respect, understand their rights, and feel empowered to 
speak up. To drive continued improvement, Amazon 
regularly evaluates and updates our policies, programs, 
and frameworks that identify, assess, and address salient 
human rights risks.
Innovation is essential to our approach. By leveraging AI, 
we can transform data into actionable insights to inform 
business priorities, strengthen human rights due diligence 
in our own operations, and help guide decision-making 
across our global supplier network. 
Our human rights approach is built on five pillars:
• Developing and maintaining strong policies and 
standards
• Embedding human rights into our business activities 
and decision-making 
• Identifying, assessing, prioritizing, and addressing risk 
• Engaging with stakeholders 
• Improving access to effective grievance mechanisms 
and remediation
Amazon respects internationally recognized human rights 
as defined by international standards and frameworks 
developed by the United Nations (UN) and the 
International Labour Organization (ILO), including the UN
 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights , the Core 
Conventions of the ILO , and the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work .
Our Progress
Developing and Maintaining Strong 
Policies and Standards
Amazon’s Global Human Rights Principles reflect our 
commitment to respecting human rights across all 
business activities. In January 2025, we updated these 
principles to align with evolving priorities, international 
standards, and industry best practices. In addition, 
Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards
 set clear expectations 
for supplier conduct. Our Modern Slavery Statement 
details our progress and ongoing efforts to combat 
modern slavery. 
Embedding Human Rights into Our 
Business Activities and Decision-
Making
Respecting human rights is a shared responsibility 
throughout our company. Amazon’s central human rights 
team works across the company to conduct due diligence 
and integrate human rights considerations into business 
decisions. We embed this responsibility into our policy and 
governance frameworks and develop resources, guidance, 
and tools to implement Amazon’s human rights strategy. 
All employees have access to training on our human rights 
commitments and Supply Chain Standards. We provide 
training in seven languages to educate employees on how 
to identify warning signs and report concerns of potential 
forced labor risks to appropriate authorities.
Employees involved in procurement and sourcing 
complete training on responsible purchasing practices. In 
2025, we developed 52 new e-learning resources, updated 
90 existing modules and supplier-facing documents, and 
piloted a three-day immersive training program for 
employees in human rights-related roles to strengthen 
knowledge across teams. We also address human trafficking by offering specialized 
trainings on human rights issues that employees might 
encounter at their jobs. Since 2019, Amazon's partnership 
with TAT (formerly Truckers Against Trafficking) has 
evolved into leveraging our transportation network to 
identify and prevent human trafficking. In 2025, we saw a 
more than 200% year-over-year increase in new driver 
training completions, including more than 12,700 
additional truck drivers trained in human trafficking 
awareness in 2025. We also implemented targeted 
awareness campaigns reaching our network of third-party 
delivery service providers and drivers, while expanding 
internationally to Mexico through collaboration with TAT's 
sister organization, El Pozo de Vida.
Identifying, Assessing, Prioritizing, 
and Addressing Risk
To empower individual businesses to own their human 
rights due diligence, Amazon has established an 
enterprise-wide methodology and created tools for each 
business to identify and prioritize business-specific salient 
risks. Grounded in international standards, this approach 
enables businesses to understand the risks and 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 27 | 
52
E-learning resources developed for 
suppliers to strengthen their 
knowledge on human rights issues
7
Language translations available for 
forced labor risk training
We partner with TAT (formerly Truckers Against 
Trafficking) to offer employees specialized 
training on recognizing and safely reporting 
potential human trafficking situations.

opportunities most relevant to the workers and 
communities they affect, and then to embed management 
systems and mitigation measures accordingly. These 
business-specific saliency assessments inform tailored 
action plans.
In 2020, Amazon conducted an enterprise-wide human 
rights saliency assessment to identify salient human rights 
risks under international standards.27 Since then, we have 
conducted a growing number of business-specific due 
diligence assessments, including an Amazon Devices 
human rights impact assessment (2020), a Twitch human 
rights impact assessment (2023), an Amazon Private 
Brands human rights saliency assessment (2023), and a 
due diligence management systems review of Whole 
Foods Market (2023). We first deployed our in-house risk 
identification methodology in 2023 with Amazon Private 
Brands, and in 2024, we expanded it to 10 business units, 
including AWS, Operations, Stores, Devices, Grocery, and 
Corporate Real Estate, all of which identified and 
prioritized salient risks and established action plans to 
address them. 
In 2025, we expanded the breadth of our due diligence 
program to additional businesses across the enterprise, 
while also deepening our assessments of three businesses 
that had completed saliency assessments in 2024. AWS 
expanded its analysis upstream to better understand and 
act on risks associated with raw materials in its supply 
chain. Our Corporate Real Estate team extended its 
assessments worldwide and incorporated the lifecycle of 
our corporate buildings. The EU Operations team 
conducted deep dives into salient issues, generating more 
granular insights to strengthen risk management across 
European logistics networks. As the program grows, we 
are building institutional knowledge that compounds with 
each assessment cycle, enabling more sophisticated risk 
management across our diverse business.
Engaging with Stakeholders
We collaborate with stakeholders and industry partners to 
accelerate both local and global efforts. For example, in 
2025, Amazon:
• Joined the World Economic Forum’s Global Data 
Partnership Against Forced Labour to help build a 
trusted infrastructure that will accelerate secure data 
sharing, bridge insights across public and private sectors 
and civil society, leverage AI-driven analytics, and 
enable collective action to mitigate and prevent forced 
labor risks in global supply chains.
• Served in a leadership role on the Steering Committee 
of Tech Against Trafficking, a coalition of technology 
companies collaborating with global experts to help 
eradicate human trafficking using technology, leading 
efforts to develop a comprehensive forced labor data 
standard, supporting the creation of actionable gap 
analyses, and championing public-private partnerships 
that improve the global response to human trafficking.
• Developed Wellness4All, a health and safety e-learning 
platform with PATH, a global nonprofit dedicated to 
health equity. The platform has been introduced by the 
Vietnam National Institute of Occupational and 
Environmental Health across multiple provinces to 
expand access to health and safety resources for 
factories nationwide. 
Learn more about our partnerships that address human 
rights in the supply chain 
Improving Access to Effective 
Grievance Mechanisms and 
Remediation
Amazon provides multiple channels for employees to 
share feedback and voice any concerns. These employee 
engagement and communications channels include 
MyVoice, Connections, and the Amazon Ethics line. We 
require suppliers to maintain effective grievance 
mechanisms for their workers, and we collaborate with 
suppliers as they develop these management systems.
All employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, and 
community members can share feedback and concerns 
through our Human Rights and Environmental Complaints 
Form , available in 19 languages globally. In 2025, we 
redesigned the form to include both anonymous and 
signed-in reporting options, improving transparency and 
usability. In 2025, Amazon addressed 100% of the 850 
complaints submitted.28
Learn more about how we work with suppliers to 
establish grievance mechanisms
 
Advancing New Technology
Innovation strengthens our ability to address human 
rights risks at scale. With a global network of thousands of 
suppliers, we are developing AI tools to enhance 
accountability in upholding our standards. In 2025, 
Amazon explored AI tools to enable more effective risk 
assessment, audit processing, and decision-making 
processes across our complex supplier network. As we 
continue developing and testing this technology, we 
maintain human oversight and expertise.
Learn more about how we are leveraging AI for audits of 
our supply chain
 
Supporting a Just Climate 
Transition
We aim to integrate human rights due diligence into our 
decarbonization efforts, so we can better identify how our 
shift to a green economy might affect the communities in 
our value chain and drive positive outcomes. In 2025, we 
focused on carbon-free energy procurement, climate 
finance, and community-based carbon neutralization 
projects. This approach helps align our net-zero carbon 
commitment while upholding our human rights principles.
Amazon supports the Resilient Futures Fund, a private 
sector initiative that provides capital and targeted support 
to accelerate solutions that can generate new 
opportunities, drive economic growth, and foster healthier 
environments and stronger communities. 
Learn more about our approach to climate and energy
 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 28 |

Employee 
Experience
Our Approach
We strive to be Earth’s best employer by supporting the 
health, wellness, and growth of more than 1.5 million full- 
and part-time employees worldwide. We offer competitive 
wages, comprehensive benefits, and upskilling programs 
that support career growth and prepare employees for 
future opportunities to meet our vision of helping all 
employees grow, thrive, and connect.
We encourage employees to share feedback through 
multiple engagement channels; we use these insights to 
improve the employee experience and empower them to 
deliver for customers. We embed inclusion into all aspects 
of the employee experience, creating an environment 
where all employees feel welcome and able to grow, 
enabling us to understand and serve our diverse 
customers around the world.
To improve access to benefits and compensation 
information, we enhanced the A to Z employee app and 
website—available in 66 countries—with an AI assistant, 
Aza, that offers easily accessible and personalized 
information about benefits, health care, and paid time off. 
In 2025, 95% of employees accessed the mobile app or 
website monthly.
Our Progress
Investing in Upskilling Programs for 
Our Employees
We support employees in developing skills for today’s 
labor market and preparing for future opportunities—
whether at Amazon or elsewhere. Upskilling enables 
employees to build competitive capabilities, advance their 
careers, and transition into higher-paying roles. 
In 2019, we set a goal to help 300,000 U.S. employees 
gain new skills by 2025. We met this goal in 2024 and 
exceeded it in 2025, with 599,000 U.S. employees 
participating since 2019 and more than 980,000 globally.
Having reached our initial commitment, we are doubling 
down on upskilling. In 2025, we announced Future Ready 
2030 , a $2.5 billion commitment to expand access to 
education and skills training and prepare at least 50 
million people for the future of work by 2030.
This initiative supports Amazon employees while extending 
far beyond our workforce to students, job seekers, and 
communities worldwide, reflecting our belief that everyone 
deserves access to the tools needed to adapt, build a career, 
and thrive in a rapidly changing economy. 
Amazon’s approach focuses on preparing people for 
future jobs, supporting them with skills training to address 
gaps and advance into new roles.
Career Choice
Career Choice, our flagship upskilling initiative launched 
in 2012, offers training for 48 career pathways in 14 
countries through a global network of 680 educational 
partners. Nearly 300,000 employees have participated 
since its inception. In 2025, 105,000 employees—11% of 
eligible associates—participated in Career Choice. 
We expanded the program to salaried employees in the 
U.S. starting in 2026.
We expanded our investment to Canada, allowing 
employees to enroll in Career Choice at a reduced wait 
time of 90 days of employment instead of one year. We 
enhanced Career Choice in the U.S. with an AI-powered 
pre-enrollment experience that supports eligible hourly 
employees with career planning and goal setting, helping 
them make more informed decisions about future 
career paths.
In 2025, we also:
• Provided 13,800 employees in the U.S. with coaching 
programs, and launched coaching services in Canada to 
help employees determine career goals and support 
them through the upskilling process.
• Launched new pathways for emerging industries and 
high-demand fields, including drone operation and 
semiconductor technician roles.
• Enabled 5,000 employees to earn bachelor’s degrees, 
and nearly 3,000 employees have earned a GED 
certificate through Career Choice since 2022. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 29 | 
Nearly
$1.2B
Invested in incremental pay for 
our U.S. frontline operations 
employees
$500M
Invested in international wage 
increases
$5
Per week employee-only basic 
health care coverage offered as a 
new benefit in the U.S.
$36%
Increase in 90-day prescription 
refills in 2025, improving 
affordability and convenience for 
employees29
Nearly
$1.1B
In supplementary retirement 
benefits provided to more than 
1 million U.S. employees
Invest $1.2 billion to upskill over 
300,000 U.S. Amazon employees 
by 2025
599K
U.S. employees have participated
in upskilling programs since we 
announced our Upskilling Pledge
 in 2019
Invest $2.5 billion through Future 
Ready 2030, a commitment to 
expand access to education and 
skills training and help prepare at 
least 50 million people for the 
future of work
Set goal in October 2025

Additionally, in 2025, over 16,400 U.S. employees 
completed English-language proficiency programs.
• Expanded our pharmacy technician career pathway to 
support both hiring needs within Amazon Pharmacy and 
the growing needs in our communities. In 2025, 64% of 
participants completed the program.
In-Demand Skills
In 2025, we launched the Automation Engineer 
Apprenticeship program, registered with the U.S. Department 
of Labor, to provide employees with specialized technical 
training and hands-on experience for roles in Amazon's 
growing robotics and automation operations.
In addition to a range of upskilling 
programs , we offer a 
U.S. Mechatronics and Robotics Apprenticeship—a paid 
program combining classroom learning with on-the-job 
training for technician roles. Graduates of this program earn 
on average $10,000 more annually than typical entry-level 
fulfillment-center wages, with 100% finding employment in 
the field in 2025.
Prioritizing Compensation and
Pay Equity
As one of the largest private employers in the U.S., our 
compensation practices affect employees, their families, and 
the communities where they live and work. In 2025, we 
incrementally invested nearly $1.2 billion in pay for 
frontline operations employees, bringing average hourly pay 
to over $23, and average total compensation to over $30 
per hour, when including the value of their elected benefits. 
Amazon invested $500 million in international wage 
increases in 2025. In the UK, we increased compensation 
for hourly operations employees to at least £14.30, a 43% 
increase since 2022. In Germany, we increased the starting 
hourly wage for logistics employees to at least €15.65, a 
38% increase since 2020. On average, after two years of 
service, logistics employees in Germany receive benefits 
and an annual salary of €40,000.
We maintain pay practices that promote fair and 
competitive compensation while complying with all 
legally required reporting obligations.
Pay Equity
Amazon is committed to compensating all employees 
equitably for comparable roles, responsibilities, and skills. 
We conduct an annual review of employee compensation, 
including base pay, cash bonuses, and stock-based 
compensation. A 2025 review found that women employed 
in the U.S. earned 99.9 cents for every dollar that men 
earned, and women globally earned the same as men ($1 
for every dollar) performing comparable jobs. This review 
also showed that racial/ethnic minorities in the U.S. earned 
99 cents for every dollar that white employees earned 
performing comparable jobs.
Pay Equity by Country
Group Country
Percentage 
Earned by 
Comparison
Women in Jobs
Comparable to Men
Global 100.0
France 99.9
Germany 98.7
Italy 99.8
Spain 99.7
UK 100.0
U.S. 99.9
Racial and Ethnic Minorities
in Jobs Comparable
to White Employees
U.S. 99.0
Offering Comprehensive and
Flexible Benefits
We provide an extensive benefits program for 
employees and eligible family members. We invested 
$11.3 billion in employee benefits across 61 countries
in 2025.
Health and Well-Being Benefits
Employees in regular full-time roles receive benefits 
starting on day one, including health care coverage, 
parental leave, financial planning, and well-being 
resources. In 2025, Amazon’s health plans provided care 
coverage to over 1.7 million employees and family 
members in the U.S. In 2025, we reduced the average time 
to enroll from 8.2 minutes to 1.2 minutes.
We expanded access to affordable, high-quality health 
care for regular full-time U.S. employee-only coverage 
through a $5 per week health plan available in 2026, 
which was previously $7.60 per week, and that includes $5 
copays for primary care and mental health visits. Fifty-one 
thousand employees enrolled in this new plan for 2026.
We provide mental health support through a global 
Employee Assistance Program (EAP). For our U.S. health 
plan members, we supplement standard coverage with a 
custom mental health network and substance use support 
to expand access to quality mental health services.
Amazon’s EAP serves 70,000 employees, their families, 
and household members across 61 countries. It offers free 
counseling sessions and a digital mental health app for 
daily support, available 24/7 in most major languages and 
fully confidential. 
Learn more about mental health programs for employees
 
Financial Well-Being Benefits
From emergency savings to retirement planning, 
Amazon's financial programs put millions of dollars 
directly into employees' hands—empowering them to 
achieve financial security and plan for their futures.
One example is Brightside Financial Care, which enables 
hourly employees in the U.S. to access personalized 
financial coaches and money management services.
In 2025, Brightside delivered $42 million in financial 
solutions to hourly employees—up from $27 million 
in 2024—with 67,000 employees participating (a 26% 
year-over-year increase).
Family-Building Benefits
We recognize that families are built in many ways, and 
our benefits coverage reflects this reality. In the U.S., 
benefits include in vitro fertilization, egg freezing, genetic 
testing, access to fertility specialists, and adoption 
assistance and reimbursement. In 2025, we expanded 
offerings to include virtual doula support, intrauterine 
insemination, and surrogacy.
Employees in 57 countries have access to fertility 
navigation services. U.S. employees receive up to 20 
weeks of paid leave for birthing parents, up to six weeks 
of paid parental leave for partners, a reduced schedule for 
up to eight weeks after birth or adoption, and up to 100% 
paid prepartum and postpartum leave. Over 25,000 
full-time and hourly U.S. employees used these benefits 
in 2025.
Commuter Benefits
Our commuter benefits reduce transportation costs while 
supporting environmental sustainability. In 2025, we 
offered flexible commuter subsidies in 75% of countries 
where employees live or work, supporting public transit 
or bicycle commuting. Employees in the U.S. can also 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 30 |

apply subsidies toward vanpool, carpool, biking, and 
rideshare options.
Employee Engagement and 
Communications
We maintain open dialogue with employees across our 
corporate and global operations through multiple 
communications channels, and encourage employees to 
raise concerns or ideas with their managers and leaders. 
These channels help us understand and act on what is 
important to employees. For example, the change in our 
entry-level health care plan, lowering the cost to $5 
per week and $5 for copays, was the result of 
employee feedback.
Multiple channels enable employees to raise concerns and 
share feedback easily:
• Ethics Line: A confidential channel that allows 
employees to anonymously report violations of 
Amazon’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
 .
• MyVoice: A two-way communication tool that provides 
Amazon Operations global associates with a forum to 
express their concerns, offer suggestions, and ask 
questions of their site leaders on a daily basis. In 2025, 
employees submitted nearly 1.4 million comments 
through MyVoice.
• Connection: A real-time, companywide feedback 
mechanism available in 61 countries and 43 languages. 
In 2025, employees provided over 1.5 million responses 
per day.
• Associate Forums: Employees selected by peers meet 
with site management to share ideas, concerns, and 
feedback on topics and decisions affecting the site, 
including working practices, shift schedules, and 
employee well-being. By the end of 2025, we had 
approximately 150 active forums.
• Associate Roundtables: Employees discuss issues,
ask questions, and get immediate feedback from
their managers and site leaders. Amazon hosts these 
meetings, with their frequency varying by business 
line and site.
Communicating about Safety
Safety is fundamental to a healthy workplace. Throughout 
Amazon Operations, we communicate about safety issues 
through Associate Safety Committees, which provide 
opportunities to describe new initiatives and gather feedback. 
All operations employees receive first-day safety training, 
with ongoing engagement through stand-up meetings, A 
to Z app notifications, and e-learning modules. We expect 
every employee and manager to participate in annual 
safety training. 
Learn more about health and safety at Amazon
 
Freedom of Association
We respect the rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining as well as workers’ right to join, 
not join, or form a labor union or other lawful 
organization of their own selection, without fear of 
reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. Globally, Amazon 
applies or is party to dozens of collective bargaining 
agreements at national, regional, sectoral, and enterprise 
levels. In 2022, we established a European Works Council, 
which is composed of workers and employer 
representatives and meets regularly to discuss 
transnational company issues.
Together at Amazon: Building 
Community and Connection
We are dedicated to building the best products and 
services for the most globally diverse employees, 
customers, and communities in the world. Our strategy is 
to move beyond traditional supplemental programs and 
create scalable systems that work for everyone, by design, 
serving our workforce of more than 1.5 million full- and 
part-time employees worldwide as well as the customers, 
partners, and communities we reach. Building systems 
that address unmet customer needs and work for people 
around the world is a shared responsibility across Amazon. 
In 2025, we began building AI-powered insights and tools 
to help builders design products that work for everyone 
from the start. For example, through the AI-powered 
Disability Inclusion Assistant, we streamlined resources 
and provided supplemental guidance. This work continues 
to inform how we build accessible tools that serve our 
global workforce and customer base.
One area we continue to focus on is scaling our work for 
active military families and veterans. After completing our 
100,000 military hiring pledge in 2024, we looked at ways 
to deepen our impact. In 2025, we visited six global 
regions through “Mission Forward” (Tokyo, London, 
Washington, D.C., Bangalore, Hawaii, and São Paulo) to 
reach military-connected employees. This established 
landmark partnerships, including a first-of-its-kind 
Memorandum of Understanding with India's Army Welfare 
Placement Organization and internship agreements with 
Japan's Self-Defense Forces. We launched Project 
Catapult, enabling Tier 1-3 veterans in operations to 
advance to Area Manager roles, and graduated veterans 
and military spouses into AWS Data Center Engineering 
positions through our Duty to Data Center program. We 
also introduced a Military Spouse Deployment Benefit and 
flexible work arrangements through partnerships with 
Blue Star Families, Hiring Our Heroes, and others.
These efforts are grounded in research. In 2025, we 
studied what creates an effective workplace environment 
with tens of thousands of corporate employees. While 
"feeling included" means different things to different 
people, a clear pattern emerged: Professional growth is 
equally as important. This research led to a working 
definition: Feeling included at Amazon means creating an 
environment where employees are valued, trusted, 
connected, informed, encouraged, and able to grow. 
That definition shaped Together at Amazon, which 
aggregates pan-Amazon offerings into a single global 
initiative that is open to all employees. We create 
pathways to upskilling, AI tooling, career development, 
mental and physical well-being programming, and 
community building through shared experiences 
including volunteering. 
In 2025, hundreds of thousands of corporate employees 
participated in programs like career Growth 
Conversations, Shout Outs for recognition and 
celebration, and Amazon Huddles, which are micro-
learning conversations that support continuous 
development and modelling of the Leadership Principles. 
These programs help employees grow, thrive and connect, 
and had a measurable positive impact on increasing job 
satisfaction and retention. 
We reached more than 647,000 corporate and operations 
employees through the Together at Amazon Community 
in 2025 alone. The community includes individual 
employees and teams, Together at Amazon Ambassadors, 
and Employee-Led Groups (ELGs), which are volunteer-run 
groups open to everyone at Amazon and spanning 2,300 
chapters across multiple countries and regions. By 
bringing employees together, we created moments of 
connection virtually and in person, from Seattle to 
Arlington, Cape Town to Toronto, and Tokyo to London. 
Learn more about inclusive programs that benefit
 
communities 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 31 |

Health and 
Safety
Our Approach
Amazon’s more than 11,000 safety professionals are 
dedicated to keeping employees and partners safe 
worldwide. It’s the most important thing we do, and it 
drives how we innovate, invest, and operate every day. 
For the past several years, we have proactively shared 
data about safety in our sites, because behind every 
metric is a person. We work every day to keep improving 
for the people across our network. In 2025, our global 
operations safety data demonstrated consistent year-
over-year improvement.
Our Progress
In 2025, we improved our Global Recordable Incident Rate 
(RIR), which includes any work-related injury that requires 
more than basic first-aid treatment, by 43% over the past 
six years and 14% year over year. In addition, we 
improved our Global Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), which 
includes any work-related injury that requires someone to 
take time away from work, by 70% over the past six years 
and 14% year over year. In the U.S., Amazon reports our 
operations data to the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration (OSHA) under the industry codes that 
reflect the kind of work we do across our network. 
The majority of our data is reported under the General 
Warehousing and Storage, and Courier and Express 
Delivery Services codes. In 2025, we continued making 
strong progress across all categories. In the U.S. General 
Warehousing and Storage industry, our RIR improved 39% 
over the past six years and 16% year over year. Our LTIR 
improved 79% over the past six years and was flat year 
over year. In the U.S. Courier and Express Delivery Services 
industry, our RIR improved 59% over the past six years 
and 19% year over year. Our LTIR improved 81% over the 
past six years and 28% year over year.
We’re making meaningful, sustained improvement. But in 
safety, there’s no such thing as “good enough.” Our goal is 
to set the benchmark for safety excellence across every 
industry where we operate. That means building safer 
workplaces by design, fostering a safety-first culture, 
and holding ourselves to a higher standard year after year.
Learn more about how Amazon’s safety performance 
improved year over year 
Prevention through Design 
One of the keys to continuously improving safety year 
after year is our Prevention through Design (PtD) 
approach, which applies engineering controls to reduce 
or eliminate potential risks before they enter the 
workplace. Before we purchase equipment or build 
facilities, our design engineers work with certified 
ergonomists, industrial hygienists, and safety engineers 
to make designs safer from the start. They use simulations 
and models to inform workflows and equipment usage 
and placement to ensure employees can work safely. 
We apply the same approach to existing sites by 
upgrading equipment, reconfiguring layouts, and 
improving processes to continuously improve our 
employees’ experience.
However, prevention doesn’t stop at design. It requires 
continuous validation. In 2025, we conducted 10.4 million 
safety inspections globally, a 33% increase from the 
previous year, to confirm our controls are working as 
intended and to identify where adjustments are needed. 
We combine these inspections with employee feedback to 
ensure our designs make work easier, align with how work 
is actually performed, and keep people safe. This creates a 
continuous loop between what we engineer and how it 
performs in practice.
One area where this engineering discipline is especially 
important is preventing musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), 
the most common workplace injury across all industries. 
MSDs—strains or sprains caused by repetitive motion, 
awkward postures, or heavy lifting—account for more 
than half of all recordable injuries at Amazon. While our 
MSD recordable rate has improved 43% over the past six 
years, they remain an important focus.
Addressing MSDs means reducing repetitive motion and 
heavy physical strain. That’s why we’ve integrated 
assistive robotics into our operations. Technologies like 
Robin and Cardinal
 help sort, lift, and place packages, 
and Proteus safely moves heavy carts alongside 
employees, reducing the need to push or pull bulky loads.
Since 2019, we’ve invested more than $2.5 billion in our 
safety efforts, including new innovations, ergonomic 
improvements, and training programs, all grounded in the 
principle that the safest workplace is one where risks are 
engineered out from the start.
Building a Culture of Safety 
Prevention through design reduces risk before it reaches 
our employees, but sustaining these improvements 
requires a culture where safety is everyone's 
responsibility. Globally, Amazon's operations network 
has more than doubled in size since 2019 to over one 
million employees across more than 2,000 sites around 
the world. Alongside that growth, we’ve worked 
diligently to further build and evolve our safety culture.
An anchor of our safety culture is our Safe to Go 
philosophy, which guides how our employees operate 
each day. Safe to Go encourages everyone across our 
operations to be proactive, and it empowers employees 
and leaders alike to speak up, slow down, or stop work if 
something doesn’t feel right. That shared expectation 
builds trust and accountability, but it only works when 
people see that their input leads to improvement. That is 
why we built simple, accessible ways for employees to 
provide suggestions quickly and easily.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 32 | 
43%
Improvement in Global Recordable 
Incident Rate (RIR) over the past six 
years and 14% improvement from 
2024. RIR includes any work-related 
injury that requires more than basic 
first aid treatment30, 31
70%
Improvement in Global Lost Time 
Incident Rate (LTIR) over the past six 
years and 14% improvement from 
2024. LTIR includes any work-
related injury that requires someone 
to take time away from work
More than
$2.5B
Invested in our safety efforts 
since 2019

Dragonfly, a system we built in-house and scaled across 
our operations network, makes it easy to submit safety 
suggestions in real time through employees' devices and 
at on-site workstations. Submissions are routed directly 
to an employee's manager and escalated to site 
leadership as needed, ensuring the right people can act 
quickly. We continue to evolve the tool to strengthen 
both employee experience and leadership accountability, 
including a new feature that allows employees to rate 
their manager's response, creating clearer transparency 
for follow-through.
In 2025, more than 200,000 employees used Dragonfly 
to share ideas. Some improvements are straightforward, 
such as adding more lighting along walkways so team 
members can see and be seen more clearly. Others are 
more technical, including working with equipment 
vendors to add sensors, flashing lights, and vibration 
alerts that provide additional warnings when forklifts 
are nearby. Across a network of our size, even small 
ideas can scale into big improvements, making our sites 
safer every day.
Working Safely with Our 
Operations Partners
Our commitment to safety extends to our partners. We 
work with independent, long-haul trucking companies to 
move products across our network, and we work with 
small business owners called Delivery Service Partners 
(DSPs) and independent contractors in the Amazon Flex 
delivery program to deliver packages to customers’ 
doorsteps. We help partners and drivers stay safe by 
providing access to industry-leading safety technologies 
and resources.
For long-haul transportation, we recognize that limited 
visibility is one of the most common safety challenges 
across the industry, particularly in conditions like fog, 
heavy rain, or darkness. Because our Amazon-branded 
trailers are on highways every day, we have invested in 
making them more visible. We've added highly reflective 
tape to Amazon-branded trailers, and this year, we're 
expanding that effort with enhanced lighting and bright 
white rear doors on all new trailers. Greater visibility helps 
other drivers recognize our trailers sooner, giving them 
more time to react and maintain safe following distances 
in low-visibility conditions.
We have also made safety enhancements to Relay, the 
tool carriers use to book and execute work. We continue 
to strengthen carrier and driver identity verification and 
authentication to ensure consistent safety standards 
nationwide that exceed Department of Transportation 
requirements. Once drivers are on the road, the Relay 
mobile app supports them with route-specific weather 
forecasts and in-app alerts to changing conditions. Our 
active weather response system proactively identifies and 
cancels loads affected by severe weather such as blizzards, 
ice storms, and high-wind warnings. Drivers also receive 
pre-trip briefings that include route options designed for 
commercial vehicles along with current road and weather 
conditions. Additionally, they have access to one-tap 
parking search to find safe rest stops, and can monitor 
real-time traffic visibility—all designed to help them make 
informed decisions and stay safe from start to finish.
For last mile delivery, we’ve invested $16.7 billion to 
support the DSP program since it launched in 2018 , 
including investments in safety and pay initiatives. A 
central part of that investment is helping to prepare 
drivers before they go on the road, which is why we’ve 
expanded hands-on training through our Integrated Last 
Mile Driver Academy . More than 180,000 drivers have 
completed in-person training focused on delivery 
fundamentals and safety protocols, using tools like virtual 
reality driving headsets and a slip-trip-fall simulator, 
where drivers—secured in a safety harness—practice 
walking on slippery surfaces to learn techniques that help 
them stay safe while walking on icy sidewalks, wet 
driveways, and snow-covered steps during deliveries.
Once on the road, DSP drivers are supported by in-vehicle 
safety technology. Amazon-branded delivery vans are 
equipped with camera-based systems that provide real-
time feedback on driving behaviors. When unsafe 
behaviors are detected, drivers receive suggestions during 
delivery stops. If those behaviors persist, DSPs are notified 
so they can provide drivers with additional reminders and 
support. In addition, for DSPs and Flex Delivery Partners, 
we provide alerts for roadway hazards and pets at delivery 
locations, along with a chat tool that lets delivery drivers 
notify customers when they’re approaching.
Ultimately, operating at our scale demands exceptional 
road safety, which is why we're continuously developing 
new ways to help keep our partners, and the communities 
where they operate, safe.
Preparing for Severe Weather 
Severe weather is one of the most unpredictable 
challenges that can impact both our employees and 
partners. While we can’t control when a winter storm
 
hits or temperatures spike , we can control how we 
prepare. That’s why we have a team of meteorologists 
monitoring weather conditions 24/7 from our Global 
Security Operations Center, providing real-time forecasts 
and risk assessments that guide operational decisions. 
Depending on conditions, that may mean delaying shifts, 
rerouting drivers, or pausing operations until it’s safe. We 
share updates through text and in-app alerts so people 
have the latest information, and most importantly, we 
empower everyone to pause work or skip a delivery if 
something doesn’t feel safe.
We also ensure our facilities, vehicles, and people are 
ready for severe weather. Our sites are climate-controlled 
and equipped with industrial fans, air-conditioned break 
rooms, hydration stations, and cooling gear to support 
teams during extreme heat. In colder conditions, we 
provide heated break areas, cold-weather gear, and hand 
warmers to help employees stay safe and comfortable. 
Beyond equipment, we invest in practical training that 
prepares employees for both severe weather events and 
everyday climate risks; from recognizing the signs of heat 
exhaustion and dehydration, to following cold-weather 
safety protocols, to applying safe driving techniques in 
rain, snow, and icy conditions.
Branded delivery vans come equipped with both air 
conditioning and heat. If either system isn’t working, the 
vehicle is immediately taken out of service. During heat 
waves, we also modify schedules to limit outdoor 
exposure during the hottest parts of the day, and during 
winter storms, we provide additional time for pre-trip 
vehicle inspections and route planning.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 33 | 
Dragonfly makes it easy for employees to submit 
safety suggestions in real time through employees’ 
devices and at on-site workstations.

Receiving Industry Recognition
Our comprehensive approach to safety—spanning 
technology, training, emergency preparedness, 
environmental protections, and road safety—has earned 
recognition from leading organizations around the world. 
Last year, Amazon received eight safety awards from the 
American Red Cross, the British Safety Council, the National 
Safety Council, and the Applied Ergonomics Society. We 
also received the highest three-star rating in the Fédération 
Internationale de l'Automobile Road Safety Index for our 
structured approach to managing and reducing road-
related risk across our transportation network. 
Together, these recognitions reflect the strength of 
initiatives such as the proactive rollout of naloxone
 (an 
opioid overdose-reversal medication) across our North 
America sites; CPR and First Aid training that exceeds 
regulatory standards; ergonomic innovations like 
adjustable-height tables that bring items to employees 
at comfortable working heights; and our continued 
investment in developing world-class safety leaders. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 34 | 
Our comprehensive approach to safety—spanning 
technology, training, emergency preparedness, 
environmental protections, and road safety—has 
earned recognition from leading organizations 
around the world.

Responsible 
Supply Chain
Our Approach
At Amazon, we are committed to providing products and 
services that are produced or supplied in a way that 
respects human rights and the environment, and protects 
the fundamental dignity of workers. We identify and 
address supply chain risks by maintaining a robust 
management system that includes a supplier audit 
program, business-unit-specific human rights and 
environmental due diligence, support for effective 
grievance mechanisms, and remediation support. 
When we identify issues in our supply chain, our response 
is guided by Amazon’s core remediation principle: workers 
should be at the center of any remediation effort we 
make. We prioritize working with suppliers to respond 
quickly, remove harm, act in the best interests of workers, 
and commit to preventing similar issues in the future.
We consider disengagement from a supplier only as a last 
resort because terminating business relationships removes 
the incentive for improvement and can negatively affect 
workers and communities.
Our supply chain spans thousands of Tier 1 suppliers 
globally. In key sourcing regions, dedicated teams engage 
directly with suppliers to communicate our standards, 
evaluate risks, foster transparency, and help build supplier 
capacity to provide safe working conditions.
We leverage our scale, technology, resources, and 
partnerships with nongovernmental organizations, 
intergovernmental organizations, and industry peers to 
drive innovation and positive change within and beyond 
our immediate supply chain. Building long-term 
partnerships and convening industry peers allows us to 
collectively address challenges and promote sector-wide 
improvements.
Our approach to maintaining a responsible supply chain 
focuses on:
• Supplier transparency and risk assessment 
• Identifying and remediating issues 
• Partnering for prevention
Our Supply Chain Standards
 underpin this approach, 
which also includes identifying country- and supplier-
specific risks and implementing site-level requirements 
to build suppliers’ capacity to meet our standards. Our 
standards are available in 23 languages and detail our 
expectations for all suppliers of goods and services for 
Amazon, including service providers, vendors, selling 
partners, contractors, and subcontractors. Products and 
services delivered to, or sold through, Amazon must be 
manufactured, produced, or provided in accordance with 
these standards. We require our suppliers to hold their 
own suppliers, subcontractors, recruitment agents, and 
labor agents to applicable laws and these standards.
We offer training for suppliers to stay updated on our 
standards, processes, and procedures and to inform their 
own supply chain policies. In 2025, we developed and 
deployed online trainings for 1,600 suppliers to promote 
awareness of our Supply Chain Standards. We also 
provided access to 90 third-party online trainings on 
12 human rights topics—such as responsible recruitment, 
fair wages, and nondiscrimination—to our businesses
and their suppliers. 
In 2025, we expanded supplier and selling partner access 
to best-in-class human rights programs, content, and e-
learning resources through Amazon’s freely available 
Sustainability Exchange
 . We added resources across two 
human rights topics from 18 third parties, including the 
International Labour Organization’s Sustaining and 
Competitive Responsible Enterprises, Ulula (an EcoVadis 
company), Japan Platform for Migrant Workers toward 
Responsible and Inclusive Society (JP-MIRAI), and others. 
This expansion provides suppliers and selling partners 
with access to training materials and tools.
In 2025, we worked to increase the number of in-person 
human rights workshops we conducted. These workshops 
bring procurement teams, suppliers, and industry experts 
together to discuss shared examples of human rights 
challenges and promote collaborative problem-solving. 
In 2025, we hosted 29 in-person workshops across 13 
countries, engaging 650 participants from 480 suppliers. 
We found that from 2023 to 2025, 60% of suppliers 
attending these workshops had reduced high-risk findings. 
Our Progress
Supplier Transparency and Risk 
Assessment
Throughout our complex global supply chain, we continue 
to increase supplier transparency through supply chain 
mapping and industry collaboration. 
Sharing our supplier list helps to track suppliers and 
increase supply chain visibility. We work collectively by 
sharing our supplier list with the Open Supply Hub
 , 
a cross-sector supplier mapping platform. Amazon’s 
supplier list and interactive supply chain map provide 
details on finished product suppliers of Amazon-branded 
apparel, consumer electronics, food and beverage, and 
home goods products. In 2025, we supported Open Supply 
Hub to integrate with partner platforms, enabling users to 
discover and access linked environmental and social data for 
production locations.
Transparency helps to mitigate risk in our supply chain. 
Yarn Ethically & Sustainably Sourced (YESS) is an initiative 
of Responsible Sourcing Network to identify and address 
forced labor in cotton harvesting. In 2025, a YESS 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 35 | 
Nearly
3.1K
Supplier audits including Amazon-
branded products, third-party labor, 
service, and not-for-resale goods 
providers across our logistics, 
warehousing, and construction 
supply chain
125K
Workers at supplier sites across Asia 
participated in safe and healthy 
workplace industry programs, a 42% 
increase from 2024
1.6K
Suppliers participated in online 
trainings to promote awareness of 
our Supply Chain Standards
60%
Of suppliers attending regional 
human rights workshops with 
procurement teams and industry 
experts had reduced high-risk 
findings from 2023-2025

program trained cotton mills and spinners to identify and 
address forced labor risks. The training helped facilities 
map their upstream supply chains, enabled mills to 
differentiate high-risk cotton inputs from low ones, and 
provided greater visibility to brands.
Our approach includes systematically assessing risk both 
within our business and in our global supply chain. In 
2025, we expanded our use of AI and machine learning to 
help our expert-led teams transform large volumes of 
data into insights that guide decision-making. For 
example, we use AI modeling tools to help identify 
suppliers at higher risk of not meeting our Supply Chain 
Standards, streamlining audit processes and helping 
prioritize which suppliers to audit. These tools enable us 
to discover issues faster, allowing us to identify risks and 
direct resources where they are needed most.
In 2025, we analyzed materials flow across AWS’s 
upstream supply chain to track materials from raw 
material extraction through end of life. By combining this 
material flow data with human rights risk assessments, we 
can identify where the most severe risks may exist in our 
supply chain and focus our due diligence efforts on the 
areas that matter most, including our approach to 
avoiding conflict minerals. Learn more in our risk 
assessments overview and our Conflict Minerals Report 
Identifying and Remediating Issues
Audits
Amazon promotes accountability through our audit 
program, which assesses supplier compliance with our 
Supply Chain Standards across aspects of Labor Rights, 
Health and Safety, Environment, and Ethics. We leverage 
audits as a key tool to identify human rights issues 
throughout our supply chain and promote remediation
of issues when they arise.32
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 36 | 
33 Supplier Audits by Risk Ratings 34 ● Medium-Level Findings ● High-Level Findings
Subcategory 2023 2024 2025
(manufacturing audits only) (manufacturing audits only) (manufacturing audits only)
Labor Rights
Freedom of Association ● 0.2% ● 0.0% ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.2% ● 0.0%
Freely Chosen Employment ● 5.6% ● 1.3% ● 6.4% ● 1.0% ● 3.1% ● 1.0%
Humane Treatment ● 0.2% ● 0.0% ● 0.3% ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.1%
Nondiscrimination ● 0.1% ● 0.1% ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.1% ● 0.1%
Subcontractor and Next-Tier Supplier Responsibility ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0%
Wages and Benefits ● 27.1% ● 0.0% ● 17.0% ● 0.0% ● 11.7% ● 0.0%
Worker Grievance/Complaint Mechanism ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.0%
Working Hours ● 6.6% ● 0.0% ● 8.1% ● 0.0% ● 3.4% ● 0.0%
Young Workers ● 1.0% ● 0.0% ● 0.2% ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.0%
Ethical Behavior
Business Integrity ● 3.0% ● 0.0% ● 2.9% ● 0.0% ● 1.0% ● 0.0%
Transparency ● 0.5% ● 1.8% ● 0.8% ● 2.9% ● 1.2% ● 2.3%
Environment
Hazardous Substances ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 1.0% ● 0.0%
Pollution Management and Prevention ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.1% ● 0.0% ● 0.2% ● 1.0%
Health and Safety
Emergency Preparedness and Response ● 11.7% ● 2.9% ● 14.1% ● 3.5% ● 10.0% ● 1.3%
Industrial Hygiene ● 8.1% ● 0.0% ● 4.2% ● 0.0% ● 2.0% ● 0.0%
Machine Safeguarding ● 0.3% ● 0.1% ● 0.5% ● 0.1% ● 0.1% ● 0.0%
Sanitation, Dormitory, and Canteen ● 1.1% ● 0.4% ● 0.6% ● 0.5% ● 0.5% ● 0.2%
Occupational Safety ● 10.5% ● 0.1% ● 8.6% ● 0.1% ● 5.5% ● 0.1%
Amazon's supplier capacity-building workshops in 
Japan support suppliers in meeting responsible 
supply chain standards.

We categorize audit findings as high, medium, or low 
severity. A high-severity finding is an issue that has 
caused, or is likely to cause, immediate harm to workers, 
communities, or the environment, or that involves 
egregious unethical behavior. 
A medium-severity finding is an issue that poses significant 
risk of harm to workers or communities or demonstrates 
exploitative practices. When audits identify high-severity 
issues, suppliers must develop corrective action plans to 
address identified issues and complete remediation measures 
to prevent recurrence. Suppliers with high-severity findings 
are also subject to follow-up audits to confirm sufficient 
remediation. For medium-severity issues, we track and 
confirm progress toward resolution through corrective action 
plans. We monitor low-severity issues for continuous 
improvement through maintenance audits.
To enhance the ability of our experts to identify issues and 
categorize audit results more quickly and accurately, we 
have been using AI audit processing tools
 . An early 
version of one of these tools processed audit reports 79% 
faster than manual review processes.
In 2025, we expanded our supplier audit program to reach 
more of Amazon’s global logistics network. We 
traditionally focused on Amazon-branded product 
suppliers, but we recognize that risks to workers exist 
throughout our supply chain. We continue to demonstrate 
our commitment to human rights as central to our 
business strategy and daily decision-making by also 
incorporating Amazon's global logistics network. This 
includes specialized audit protocols for construction 
suppliers and procedures for our global transportation 
supply chain. Over the year, we secured 3,081 audits of 
suppliers of Amazon-branded products, third-party labor, 
service, and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, 
warehousing, and construction supply chain. Of these, 
1,579 audits focused specifically on third-party labor, 
service, and not-for-resale goods providers.
Access to Effective Grievance 
Mechanisms
We encourage workers across Amazon’s supply chain to 
voice their concerns, whether directly to us or through 
supplier-managed tools. This ensures Amazon and our 
suppliers are better able to address existing issues and 
prevent future ones. We require suppliers to establish 
effective grievance mechanisms for their workers, and in 
some cases we actively support them to build and 
strengthen these management systems. We help suppliers 
improve their internal processes around training, triaging 
cases, and overall management of grievance processes.
We continue to connect supplier sites with independent 
third-party grievance mechanisms, specifically those in 
high-risk sectors and regions. In 2025, we connected 
supplier sites in eight countries with third-party 
grievance mechanisms. 
Through our partnership with Ulula, we expanded our 
worker voice program, including worker surveys and a 
helpline in Vietnam, joining Cambodia, China, India, and 
Pakistan. Additionally, in 2025, Amazon began working 
with the Hamary Awaz Helpline in Pakistan, a confidential 
and independent grievance mechanism designed for 
reporting and resolving workplace concerns. In 
Bangladesh, we engage with Nirapon, an industry-led 
nonprofit that partners with the Amader Kotha Helpline 
and works with global brands, retailers, and other 
partners to support the development of a culture of 
workplace safety in factories. In the U.S., we began 
connecting supplier sites with Dignia, an industry 
grievance mechanism that provides workers with a 
confidential, independent channel to raise concerns.
In 2025, we collaborated with JP-MIRAI to implement 
worker voice mechanisms in our Japan supply chain. This 
initiative provided workers with secure channels to report 
workplace concerns, particularly regarding recruitment 
practices and labor rights. This initiative builds on 
Amazon’s continued to support JP-MIRAI’s fair and ethical 
recruitment initiative, which addresses recruitment 
corridor challenges in Bangladesh, Indonesia, Nepal, and 
Vietnam, primary countries of origin for migrant workers 
in Japan.
Our Human Rights and Environmental Complaints 
Procedure allows supply chain workers, among others, 
to share concerns directly with us. Learn more about how 
we provide access to grievance mechanisms 
Remediation
An important part of our strategy is working with 
suppliers to remediate issues. We support remediation 
when suppliers in our supply chain have high- or medium-
risk findings in their audits.
Amazon’s remediation managers—who are strategically 
placed globally where Amazon operates—guide suppliers 
to develop corrective action plans, verify their progress, 
advise on how to mitigate risks going forward, and 
conduct follow-up audits as needed. Failure to take 
corrective action can result in suppliers losing their ability 
to conduct business with Amazon. 
Partnering for Prevention
Responsible Recruitment and Freely 
Chosen Employment
We do not tolerate child labor, involuntary or forced labor, 
human trafficking, or any forms of modern slavery across 
our operations and supply chains. In 2025, we accelerated 
efforts to prevent forced labor risks across our operational 
supply chain, with a focus on responsible recruitment, 
analyzing risk trends, providing supplier training, and 
building vendor and supplier capacity.
To advance responsible recruitment and migrant worker 
protection across our global supply chain in 2025, we:
• Expanded responsible recruitment practices at Amazon
operations (fulfillment, sortation, and delivery stations)
in the Gulf, establishing partnerships with verified
zero-fee recruitment agencies, setting targeted hiring
goals through ethical recruitment programs, and
implementing dual-stage verification processes to
strengthen recruitment safeguards.
• Launched a yearlong initiative with the International
Organization for Migration (IOM) in Nepal focused
on migrant workers’ rights in high-risk supply chain
corridors, aligning with Nepal's National Action Plan on
Business and Human Rights. In 2025, Amazon and the
IOM brought together Nepal's Ministry of Labor and
other public and private entities to discuss recruitment
challenges in the region, maintaining a dialogue with
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 37 |

private sector entities and training recruitment agents 
on responsible recruitment and safe migration practices.
• Collaborated with The Centre for Child Rights and 
Business to help prevent child labor and promote 
children’s rights by creating age-appropriate 
employment opportunities for vulnerable, work-
authorized teenagers in Virginia and Kansas, U.S. 
This collaboration supports development of replicable 
tools, training materials, and engagement strategies 
that can benefit the wider manufacturing sector.
• Amazon Grocery, along with Mars, Inc., participated in 
the development of the Responsible Labor Initiative’s 
(RLI) Food and Beverage Workgroup, an industry group 
that focuses on shared human rights risks across food 
and beverage supply chains. The RLI is an initiative of 
the Responsible Business Alliance.
• Supported Harvesting the Future, a three-year, multi-
sector initiative coordinated by the Fair Labor 
Association to strengthen working conditions and child 
protections in cotton-farming communities in Madhya 
Pradesh, India.
Learn more about responsible recruitment and 
remediation in our Modern Slavery Statement
 
Safe and Healthy Workplaces
Worker health and safety are core priorities across our 
supply chain. Amazon partners with suppliers and industry 
organizations to advance worker rights in these areas.
Amazon is a Brand Participant in the Life and Building 
Safety (LABS) initiative. We actively contribute to the 
LABS program through participation on the Steering, 
Technical, and Communications committees. LABS works 
to mitigate preventable fire, electrical, and structural 
safety risks in key apparel, footwear, accessories and 
home-textile producing countries.
In Bangladesh, 100% of supplying factories participate in 
Nirapon’s Safety Management Program, supporting 
factories to take ownership of workplace safety through 
systems, education, and promoting continuous 
improvement. Of these suppliers, 74% participated in the 
Amader Kotha Helpline, which provides workers with a 
confidential channel to report safety-related concerns 
and seek resolution. 
Where programs with industry organizations are not in 
place, Amazon conducts our own specialized Building, 
Electrical, and Fire Safety assessments. In 2025, 
we expanded assessments to seven sites in Pakistan, 
reaching 19,200 workers. Additionally, several Amazon 
Private Brands supplier factories in Vietnam partnered 
with PATH’s Wellness4All program
 , a comprehensive 
worker well-being initiative launched by Amazon in 2024. 
The program screens workers for occupational diseases 
and trains managers on occupational health, safety, and 
mental health practices.
In 2025, Tier 1 supplier sites in Bangladesh, Cambodia, 
India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Vietnam participated in 
these safe and healthy workplace industry programs, 
covering 125,000 workers.
Amazon Devices joined the Clean Electronics Production 
Network, a multi-stakeholder membership organization 
with the mission of reducing worker exposure to toxic 
chemicals in the electronics industry. This membership 
supports our ongoing efforts to advance worker health 
and safety by proactively managing chemicals in our 
Devices supply chain.
Fair Wages
Amazon believes workers have the right to be paid fairly 
for their work. Our Supply Chain Standards require 
suppliers to pay their workers in a timely manner and to 
satisfy or exceed applicable wage laws, including on 
minimum wages and allowances, overtime pay, benefits, 
and paid leave. In 2025, Amazon Operations started 
exploring how best to set starting wages in countries that 
do not have a legal minimum wage, informed by global 
fair wage calculation methodologies. 
Environmental Protection 
We strive to source products and services that avoid 
environmental harm. We require suppliers to comply 
with applicable environmental laws and regulations. 
We also encourage them to engage in efforts that support 
environmental sustainability and make progress toward 
reducing effects on the environment within their 
operations and supply chain. This could include reducing 
consumption of energy and water or generation of 
greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and hazardous materials. 
Amazon supports supplier decarbonization actions 
through a procurement training program designed to 
equip our procurement teams with the tools and 
knowledge needed to effectively engage suppliers on 
carbon emissions reductions.
Learn more about how we decarbonize the supply chain
 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 38 | 
Amazon customers can shop for products that have a 
focus on worker welfare and safe working conditions on 
Amazon.com. Learn more about the Climate Pledge 
Friendly program and the sustainability features 
recognized in Climate Pledge Friendly 
Employees involved in procurement and sourcing 
complete training on responsible purchasing 
practices.

Communities
Our Approach
Amazon aims to create positive outcomes in our 
communities using our global scale and operational 
strengths. We focus on two things: improving customers’ 
lives and contributing to the fabric of communities. 
We invest billions of dollars into the communities in which 
we operate, helping local economies grow and creating 
jobs, both directly and indirectly. Through strategic 
partnerships and local engagement, we aim to create 
environments where individuals, families, and businesses 
can thrive. 
We want our presence to support thriving communities 
by creating jobs and affordable housing, investing in 
education and infrastructure, empowering local 
businesses, and providing disaster relief. 
Learn more about how we invest in communities to 
prepare them for future of work 
Our Progress
Creating Economic Impact
Just as we aim to make our customers’ lives better every 
day, we also aim to make a positive economic impact on 
the communities where we operate around the world. 
Since 2010, we have invested trillions of dollars
 to 
serve our customers and communities, including more 
than $1.8 trillion toward infrastructure and employee 
compensation in the U.S., $300 billion in Europe, and 
$170 billion in Asia.
We continued to expand our economic footprint in 2025, 
investing more in the U.S. economy than any previous 
year, with more than $340 billion in communities across 
the U.S. When we invest a dollar in a town or city—
whether by building a facility, hiring local workers, 
or partnering with small businesses—that dollar creates 
$1.20 in additional economic activity.
Learn more about our economic impact and global tax 
contribution 
Our presence creates jobs, upskilling opportunities, and 
stimulates the economy. According to a joint study by 
economists at Amazon and The Wharton School, 
University of Pennsylvania, U.S. counties with Amazon 
facilities see 3,900 more new jobs compared to similar 
counties without our presence. Additionally, the research 
shows median household incomes increase by more than 
$1,400 annually, and poverty rates fall by 3% on average. 
A 2025 Oxford Economics study
 further validates these 
findings, showing that when Amazon opens a large 
fulfillment center in a county, after five years, 6,000 more 
small businesses emerge, 12,000 fewer people are 
unemployed, and 6,000 fewer people rely on Medicaid.
Learn more about how we create jobs and invest, state 
by state 
Between 2010 and 2025, Amazon has invested more 
than $450 billion in over 1,000 small towns and rural 
areas across the U.S. Forty percent of Amazon jobs 
added in the last five years were in communities with 
populations under 50,000. By the end of 2026, we aim 
to grow our rural delivery network’s footprint to over 
200 delivery stations, creating 100,000 new jobs and 
driver opportunities.
With more than 2 million direct and indirect jobs created 
across the country, Amazon has created more jobs in the 
U.S. than any other company over the past decade.
In 2025, Amazon announced plans to invest £40 billion 
in the UK over the next three years (2025-2027). This 
investment includes building new fulfillment centers and 
new delivery stations nationwide, as wellas upgrades and 
expansions to our existing network of operations buildings 
across the country. In India, Amazon announced plans to 
invest more than $35 billion across our businesses 
through 2030, with the aim to further accelerate digital 
transformation, strengthen infrastructure, and support 
innovation across the country. These investments are 
strategically aligned with India's national priorities and 
will focus on expanding AI capabilities, enhancing logistics 
infrastructure, supporting small business growth, and 
creating jobs.
More than 60% of sales in Amazon stores come from 
independent sellers—most of which are small- to 
medium-sized businesses. In 2025, these sellers employed 
over 2 million people across the U.S to support their 
Amazon business. In addition, independent sellers in the 
U.S. averaged $375,000 in annual sales in 2025, with over 
75,000 sellers surpassing $1 million in sales. 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 39 | 
Invest $3.6 billion through 
Amazon’s housing fund to create 
and preserve more than 35,000 
affordable homes
$2.4B
Committed to create or preserve 
more than 23,000 affordable 
homes, supporting more than 
50,800 residents since 2021
More than
270K
Amazon employees volunteered 
from more than 50 countries 
$348M
Contributed to support 3,100 
community partners globally99M
Meals donated or delivered to 
households in need30
Natural disasters responded to 
across six countries5.8M
Students reached globally 
through Amazon Future Engineer 
programs
$340B
Invested in communities across 
the U.S.

Supporting Community 
Development
Community Partnerships 
Amazon partners closely with organizations working in 
communities to provide essential services to those in need. 
To create lasting impact in the places we call home, we 
build deep relationships with organizations whose missions 
align with our priorities. We start by listening closely to 
understand their needs, then collaborate to find 
thoughtful, meaningful ways to support them. 
One impactful example from 2025 is Think Big Spaces
 . 
Since launching our first Think Big Space in 2019, we have 
expanded to 108 spaces worldwide. These labs are spread 
across the U.S., including Eastern Oregon and Central 
Ohio, and the globe, including locations in India, Ireland, 
Australia, Japan, Indonesia, South Korea, and Spain. Today, 
these out-of-the-box education spaces provide access to 
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) 
education access to 90,000 students and educators within 
the communities where they live.
Affordable Housing
Amazon’s housing fund provides low-interest loans and 
grants to increase the supply of long-term, affordable 
housing for low- to moderate-income residents in three 
hometown communities: Washington State’s Puget Sound 
region, the National Capital Region, and Nashville, 
Tennessee. We require the majority of properties we 
invest in to remain affordable for 99 years, creating 
generational stability for families.
Amazon initially committed $2 billion to create and 
preserve 20,000 affordable homes across these 
communities. We exceeded this original goal two years 
early, in 2024. By the end of 2025, we had committed 
$2.4 billion to create and preserve more than 23,000 
homes. We have increased our commitment to a total of 
$3.6 billion to create or preserve 35,000 affordable homes 
in these three communities.
Learn more about Amazon’s housing fund
 
In This Together
Around the world, and across Amazon businesses, our In 
This Together initiative creates a single entry point to 
discover the many pathways to Amazon including skill 
development, entrepreneurship, business growth 
opportunities, and streamlined ways to find affordable 
programs. We are making it possible for anyone—even 
without prior connections and regardless of geography—
to supply, sell, own, learn, join, and create with Amazon.
We respond to community needs by providing civic 
organizations, professional associations, and educational 
institutions access to career opportunities, supplier 
development, business ownership, seller resources, 
training and certifications, and accessibility solutions. 
In 2025, we engaged hundreds of thousands of 
community members in Amazon programs including 
Amazon Future Engineer, AI readiness training, Machine 
Learning University, and more, in an effort to create 
opportunities to build a future ready workforce together. 
Helping Communities Address 
Pressing Needs
Food Security
Food 
security means having access to safe and 
nutritious food for normal development and an active life. 
We use our logistics, technology, and delivery 
infrastructure to support food security efforts. Our home 
delivery program provides transportation and supporting 
technology at no cost to deliver food to families in need. 
In 2025, we:
• Donated or delivered 99 million meals to food banks, 
nonprofits, and households in 11 countries. 
• Delivered 14 million meals and, since the program 
started in 2020, we have delivered 60 million meals in 
the U.S. directly to the doorsteps of 200,000 families in 
need at no cost to our food bank partners and extended 
our commitment to provide free home delivery meal 
service through 2028.
• Partnered with 61 local food banks in the U.S. to 
redistribute surplus food to people experiencing hunger.35
• Whole Foods Market donated 26 million meals of 
unsold food to over 1,000 food rescue and 
redistribution programs across the U.S. These efforts 
reduce waste, support food security, and help build 
a more sustainable food system.
We make grocery shopping more affordable through our 
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (“Cash EBT”) 
program. We accept benefits in 23 states through Amazon 
Access , which also enables Supplemental Nutrition 
Assistance Program benefits for groceries and offers 
Prime membership discounts and 50% off grocery 
delivery subscriptions.
Education and Skills-Building
We support learners of all ages to develop skills needed 
for future jobs. The AWS Education Equity Initiative
 , a 
$100 million, five-year investment in cloud and AI 
technology, expands access to education and technical 
skills globally. In 2025, we launched Future Ready—a $2.5 
billion initiative to equip 50 million people with the skills 
they need for the future of work by 2030. This new 
upskilling initiative benefits Amazon employees, students, 
and many others because we believe that in a rapidly 
changing economy, people deserve the tools to adapt, 
build a career, and thrive.
In 2025, we:
• Connected 144,500 learners to employers through the 
AWS Skills to Jobs Tech Alliance
 
• Reached 5.8 million students through the childhood-to-
career computer science program, Amazon Future 
Engineer 
• Launched 26 community funds and allocated more than 
$21.1 million in hyper-local funding globally
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 40 | 
How AI Benefits 
Communities
In 2025, we integrated cloud and AI technology across 
community initiatives to automate processes, analyze 
community sentiment, and enable data-driven decisions. 
We equip nonprofit partners and organizations reaching 
underserved audiences with tech-enabled tools to scale 
their impact. In 2025, we:
• Provided more than 50,000 learners globally with 
access to foundational AI skills via AWS Educate, hands-
on learning with PartyRock and Quick, and access to 
AWS AI certifications and Udacity Nanodegree through 
AI & ML Scholars
 
• Supported 575 customers in education, health, and 
climate with AWS cloud and AI technology
• Provided AWS cloud and AI training to over 100 
customers from 34 countries through Amazon’s Social 
Entrepreneur Accelerators
• Invested $1 million in 43 organizations and projects to 
identify practical AI solutions that advance the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Learn more about how we are integrating AI across 
community initiatives

• Trained 14,400 unemployed or underemployed 
individuals through AWS re/Start 12-week 
training sessions
• Distributed $17.9 million in AWS cloud and AI 
technology for education
To expand cloud and AI technology, the AWS Machine 
Learning University educator enablement program 
provides faculty at community colleges, minority-serving 
institutions, and historically Black colleges and universities 
with the skills and resources to teach data analytics, AI, 
and machine learning concepts, building a diverse pipeline 
for in-demand jobs of today and tomorrow. Through the 
AWS AI and ML Scholars program
 , we have provided 
access to foundational skills in AI to 50,000 learners 
globally. As part of the White House’s Pledge to America’s 
Youth , Amazon will support AI skills training for 324,000 
learners and enable AI curricula for 2,000 U.S. educators 
by 2028. Additionally, AWS Academy
 provides higher 
education institutions with a free, ready-to-teach AI and 
cloud computing curriculum that prepares students to 
pursue industry-recognized certifications and in-demand 
technology jobs. 
Learn more about our skills training programs
 and 
STEM Education programs 
Disaster Relief 
When disasters strike, we apply the same strengths that 
get packages to doorsteps every day to get crucial aid 
where it’s needed quickly. We share our advanced 
technology and innovation with local partners to help 
rapidly restore internet connectivity, power sources, and 
communication capabilities in the aftermath of disasters. 
In 2025, we supported responses to 30 disasters across six 
countries. Across the U.S., Europe, Asia, and Australia, we 
maintain global Disaster Relief Hubs
 with supplies such 
as tarps, masks, cleaning supplies, and other relief 
products. Since 2017, we have donated more than 30.2 
million relief items to communities affected by disasters.
In 2025, we donated $10 million to support the response 
to Southern California wildfires, including donating 
550,000 items from our Wildfire Disaster Relief Hub. 
In central and southeastern Mexico, we donated and 
delivered emergency supplies to assist communities 
recovering from devastating floods. In response to 
Hurricane Melissa in Jamaica, Amazon donated 66,975 
shelf-stable food items for meal boxes.
After Hurricane Helene, we used AI to analyze thousands 
of drone photos from dangerous flood zones and create 
maps of high-priority search areas in Tennessee, reducing 
search-and-rescue times from days to hours. Our agentic 
platform is also powering AI innovation at the American 
Red Cross. Backed by the AWS Imagine Grant, the Red 
Cross is building Clara AI, a groundbreaking multi-agent 
platform that will coordinate specialized agents for 
disaster relief, blood services, military family support, 
lifesaving training, and multilingual assistance. This 
system will enable the Red Cross to serve millions while 
focusing on complex, life-critical cases.
We also provide technology solutions to partners 
responding to emergencies, including kits to restore 
online access, portable mapping devices for search 
and rescue, and technology that prevents drones from 
interfering with firefighting aircraft. Amid three natural 
disasters in 2025, we deployed AWS cloud technology to 
help local governments and organizations stay connected 
and provided over $1.2 million in AWS cloud and AI 
technology for disaster resilience efforts, including 
supporting Watch Duty, which runs its wildfire tracking 
service on AWS.
Learn more in our 2025 Puget Sound
 and National 
Capital Region Community Impact Reports.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 41 | 
Supporting Communities 
Through Volunteering 
During our 2025 Global Month of Volunteering , a 
record 131,700 Amazon employees from over 54 
countries participated in over 6,300 events. Throughout 
the year, more than 270,000 employees volunteered 
across more than 50 countries. Through Amazon’s pro 
bono program, our legal and public policy professionals 
use their skills to help individuals and organizations that 
cannot otherwise afford access to legal support. Since the 
inception of the program, more than 2,400 members of 
our legal and public policy teams have collectively 
volunteered over 80,000 hours of service.
Our disaster relief tech kits provide 
connectivity and power to first responders when 
traditional systems fail during disasters like 
hurricanes and wildfires.

Responsible 
Business 
Practices
Our Approach
Amazon upholds responsible business practices and 
robust governance structures across global operations. 
Operating ethically and with integrity is a nonnegotiable 
part of how we do business. It is crucial to how we 
develop, deploy, and support our product and service 
offerings and maintain trust with our stakeholders. 
We also engage in public policy efforts globally on issues 
that matter to our customers, stakeholders, investors, 
and business.
Our business practices, which include safeguards to 
protect customer privacy, data security, and responsible 
use of AI, help us identify, mitigate, and manage risks 
at scale.
Learn more about how we use AI responsibly
 
Our Progress
Corporate Governance
Amazon’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) is responsible 
for the control and direction of Amazon. It represents the 
shareholders, and its primary purpose is to build long-
term shareholder value. The full Board regularly meets 
with management and reviews reports from management 
on various aspects of our business, including potential 
risks and mitigation efforts.
Risk Oversight
The Board and its committees oversee executives’ 
management of risks relevant to the company. While the 
full Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight, the 
Board has delegated responsibility related to certain risks 
to the Audit Committee, the Leadership Development and 
Compensation Committee, the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee, and the Security Committee.
Amazon’s Board Oversight
The Board actively oversees Amazon’s sustainability and 
corporate governance policies and initiatives; receives 
periodic reports on and discusses enterprise risk 
assessments; oversees and receives regular reports on 
regulatory compliance; and reviews shareholder feedback 
on these topics as we evolve our practices and disclosures. 
The Board meets regularly during the year and holds 
special meetings and acts by unanimous written consent 
whenever circumstances require. In 2025, the Board held 
six in-person meetings and participated in regularly 
scheduled teleconference discussions on various topics.
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 42 | 
Amazon Board Committee Structure and Oversight
The Board and its committees oversee executives’ management of risks relevant to the company.
Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee
Responsible for overseeing
management of risks related
to our sustainability and other
environmental and corporate
social responsibility practices,
including risks related to our
operations and supply chain and 
responsible AI development and 
AI governance.
Leadership Development and
Compensation Committee
Responsible for overseeing
management of risks related
to succession planning and
compensation for our executive
officers and our overall 
compensation program, including our 
equity-based compensation plans, as 
well as risks related to other human 
capital management matters, 
including workplace health and 
safety, culture, diversity, 
discrimination, and harassment.
Audit Committee
Responsible for overseeing
management of risks related to our 
financial statements and financial 
reporting process, assessment of risks 
related to business continuity and 
operational risks, the
qualifications, independence, and 
performance of our independent 
auditors, the performance of our 
internal audit function, legal and
regulatory matters, our compliance 
policies and procedures, tax planning 
and compliance, 
and political contributions and 
lobbying expenses.
Security Committee
Oversees the company’s policies
and procedures for protecting the 
company’s security infrastructure 
and for compliance with applicable
data protection and security
regulations, and related risks.
The Security Committee receives 
reports regarding such risks from 
management, including our Chief 
Security Officer, and reports to the 
Board at least annually. The
committee also oversees the
Board’s response to any significant 
data security incidents.
4 Meetings Held 5 Meetings Held 6 Meetings Held 2 Meetings Held
In 2025, each committee met with management and reviewed topics including:
• The Board’s composition, diversity 
of experiences, backgrounds, and 
perspectives, and skills in the 
context of identifying and 
evaluating new director candidates 
to join the Board
• The Board’s recruitment and
self-evaluation processes 
• Board compensation
• Board committee membership and 
qualifications
• Consideration of the company’s 
policies and initiatives regarding 
sustainability, corporate social 
responsibility, and corporate 
governance
• Review of the company’s approach 
to responsible AI development and 
AI governance
• Review of recent public relations 
initiatives
• Feedback from the company’s 
shareholder engagement
• The design, amounts, and 
effectiveness of the company’s 
compensation of senior executives 
• Management succession planning 
• The company’s benefit and 
compensation programs
• The company’s human resources 
programs, including review of 
workplace discrimination and 
harassment reports, worker health 
and safety and workplace 
conditions, and diversity and 
inclusion matters
• Feedback from the company’s 
shareholder engagement, 
particularly with respect to the 
2025 advisory vote approving the 
compensation of our named 
executive officers
• The company’s risk assessment, 
including business continuity and 
operational risks, and compliance 
functions
• Data privacy 
• Policies, procedures, and reports 
on political contributions and 
lobbying expenses
• Treasury and investment matters
• Tax matters
• Financial statements and financial 
reporting
• Accounting industry issues
• The performance of our internal 
audit function
• The reappointment of our 
independent auditor
• Pending litigation and regulatory 
compliance
• The Amazon Security 
organization’s ongoing 
investments in the Company’s 
security infrastructure and 
management of and response to 
cybersecurity risks as well as 
physical security risks
• Cybersecurity-related internal 
audit findings and initiatives
• Regulatory and governance 
updates related to cybersecurity

Climate-Related Governance
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is 
responsible for overseeing management of risks related to 
our sustainability and other environmental and corporate 
social responsibility practices, including risks related to 
our operations and supply chain and responsible AI 
development and AI governance.
The Chief Sustainability Officer oversees Amazon's 
Sustainability team and provides regular updates to the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 
Amazon's Sustainability team coordinates efforts across 
the company to oversee operational changes that help 
avoid carbon in our business. Our companywide carbon 
system of record provides business-level emissions 
information that allows teams to track decarbonization 
progress. The Sustainability team reports to the senior 
leadership team on various aspects of our environmental, 
sustainability, and other relevant practices on a quarterly 
basis. Amazon’s senior leadership team also holds 
quarterly business reviews with business-level leadership 
teams to track progress toward meeting our commitments 
under The Climate Pledge.
Human Rights Governance
We maintain dedicated governance systems to oversee 
human rights protections, ethical labor practices, and 
responsible business conduct across operations and our 
supply chain.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
oversees and monitors Amazon’s policies and initiatives 
relating to corporate social responsibility, including 
human rights and ethical business practices, and related 
risks most relevant to Amazon’s operations and 
engagement with customers, suppliers, and communities. 
The Chief Sustainability Officer also provides updates on 
these topics to the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee. In addition, the Board’s Leadership 
Development and Compensation Committee oversees and 
monitors the company’s strategies and policies related to 
human capital management within the company’s 
workforce, including with respect to policies on 
nondiscrimination in employment, our workplace 
environment and safety, and corporate culture.
Amazon has a Human Rights Officer (HRO) who oversees 
risk management of human rights and environmental risks 
to meet regulatory requirements. The HRO reports 
directly to Amazon’s Chief Sustainability Officer and 
facilitates regular updates on Amazon’s risk management 
activities to senior leadership of relevant Amazon entities. 
Relying on the core resources of a central team, Amazon’s 
HRO partners with local teams to monitor these Amazon 
risk management activities.
Learn more about how we embed human rights into our 
decision-making 
Shareholder Engagement
We believe that effective corporate governance includes 
year-round engagement with our shareholders. Our 
shareholder engagement team includes employees whose 
full-time, year-round responsibilities include engaging 
with our investors, communicating with management and 
directly with our Board members to inform them on topics 
discussed and feedback received in the course of their 
engagement meetings, and coordinating and promoting 
the effectiveness of direct shareholder engagement 
meetings that our directors participate in.
From the beginning of 2025 through April 9, 2026, when 
we filed our 2026 Proxy Statement, we engaged with 66 
of our 100 largest unaffiliated shareholders, as well as 
with numerous other shareholders. Our lead independent 
director participated in one-on-one or small group 
meetings with shareholders owning more than 22% of our 
stock. This outreach is complementary to the hundreds of 
touchpoints our Investor Relations team has with 
shareholders each year. Our direct engagement with 
shareholders helps us better understand our shareholders’ 
priorities, perspectives, and areas of concern, while giving 
us an opportunity to elaborate on our many initiatives and 
practices and to address the extent to which various 
aspects of these matters are (or are not) significant given 
the scope and nature of our operations and our existing 
practices. We take insights from this feedback into 
consideration and regularly share them with our Board as 
we review and evolve our practices and disclosures.
Business Ethics
Ethical conduct and integrity form the foundation of our 
business, from how employees make decisions to how we 
develop products and services. This foundation is critical 
to building and maintaining strong relationships with 
customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders.
Amazon enforces compliance with local, state, federal, 
and laws of other countries through our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and associated policies. We reinforce 
these through regular employee training and annual risk 
assessment and compliance reviews.
In 2025, we harnessed AI to create efficiencies in the 
program. For example, we use AI to develop risk 
assessments within our operations to flag issues that need 
further attention.
The Business Conduct and Ethics program is led by the 
Vice President for Business Conduct and Ethics, who 
reports to the Senior Vice President, Chief Global Affairs & 
Legal Officer, with regional oversight. The program 
includes the following:
• Review process: We take all allegations seriously, and 
prohibit retaliation. Our Business Conduct and Ethics 
team records and, where appropriate, investigates (or 
directs others to investigate) violations, and reports 
findings to the Board’s Audit Committee. The team also 
tracks any necessary remediation. Employees found in 
breach of the Code are subject to disciplinary action, up 
to and including discharge. Senior leadership receives 
regular updates on harassment and discrimination 
allegations involving director-level positions or above, 
and the Leadership Development and Compensation 
Committee receives detailed quarterly updates for vice-
president-level positions and above, or for cases subject 
to external investigation.
• Appeals process: Amazon maintains an online appeals 
process that allows eligible employees in the U.S. and 
Canada to challenge certain disciplinary actions. A 
manager reviews the appeal to confirm whether policies 
were correctly applied or to take appropriate 
remediation.
• Communication channels: Amazon actively encourages 
our employees to report any issues or concerns without 
fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment and 
provides various secure and accessible channels to do 
so. They can also contact Human Resources, the Legal 
Department, or any manager with questions about 
Amazon's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and its 
application or how to navigate a difficult workplace 
situation.
• Ethics line: This confidential line managed by an 
independent third party, currently available in 65 
countries and in 165 languages, allows employees to 
voice concerns, anonymously report potential Code 
violations, and ask questions on ethical matters. Reports 
received are routed to teams with the appropriate 
expertise to address them.
• Extensive financial transaction controls: Accounting, 
finance operations services, accounts payable, and 
payroll are designed to identify, monitor, and assess 
risks including fraud, misappropriation of assets, 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 43 |

corruption, and financial reporting integrity. Control 
functions—including finance, procurement, and internal 
audit—collaborate with the Business Conduct and Ethics 
team to help prevent corruption.
• Third-party due diligence: Before entering into 
business relationships, we take a risk-based approach to 
assess third-party partners, where appropriate, through 
a due diligence program designed to identify potential 
compliance risks.
• Gift and entertainment reporting: We require 
employees to disclose and seek approval for qualifying 
gifts or services received from third parties or given to 
government officials. We also provide a mechanism for 
employees to disclose potential conflicts of interest and 
receive guidance on necessary remediation.
Learn more about how we gather and implement 
employee feedback 
Training
Ethical practices and integrity are foundational to our 
company, and these principles begin with Amazon’s 
leaders and Board. Amazon’s Board receives training on 
the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, and competition. All 
employees receive Code of Conduct training during 
onboarding, followed by periodic refresher training. 
Depending on their position, employees may receive 
additional training on anti-corruption and anti-bribery, 
discrimination, and harassment.
 
Advancing Anti-Corruption Efforts with 
Governments and Industry Partners
In 2025, we continued to engage externally on advancing 
anti-corruption efforts. We are a part of the Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development’s 
Galvanizing
 the Private Sector as Partners in Combating 
Corruption program , which includes its Anti-Corruption 
Leaders Hub (ACLH), a working group of public officials, 
civil society groups, and private sector compliance leaders. 
ACLH is an important forum for advancing efforts toward 
digitizing compliance information and transaction data 
and expanding local partner vetting programs—which are 
among Amazon’s priorities.
We complement external anti-corruption efforts with 
clear internal policies. Employees may not bribe anyone 
for any reason, whether in dealings with governments or 
the private sector. 
Supplier Development and Impact
Amazon’s global supply base comprises a wide array of 
small, medium, and large companies, both public and 
private, locally, regionally or globally based, including 
Disadvantaged-owned Businesses (DOB) certified by the 
U.S. Small Business Administration, U.S. Department of 
Transportation, and other recognized agencies from 
various industries. As we continue to grow globally, our 
long-term goal is to promote supplier relationships and 
development, including DOBs, in every country where 
Amazon operates. 
Amazon's Supplier Development and Impact (SDI)
 Tier 1 
spend, direct payments to DOBs for goods and services, 
increased from $9.7 billion in 2024 to $10.5 billion in 
2025. This expansion resulted from increased purchases 
with existing suppliers in our supply chain and 
identification of new companies, bringing the total number 
of qualified, competitive DOBs to more than 650. In 2025, 
we made direct payments to DOBs in eight countries.
Amazon SDI creates impact through both direct spend 
with DOBs and through our Tier 2 program, where Tier 1 
suppliers are encouraged to include qualified and 
competitive DOBs in their sourcing activities. In 2025, 196 
Tier 1 suppliers reported over $2.4 billion in Tier 2 spend 
achieved through this program. Through improved 
processes and technologies, our spend with DOBs 
strengthened economic impact in the U.S., Canada, and 
the UK by supporting approximately 76,000 jobs and 
generating approximately $6.1 billion in wages. U.S. tax 
impact was over $850 million in taxes.
Data Protection and Security
Privacy is a core tenet of responsible business practices, 
and we work to earn and maintain customer trust through 
strong oversight of privacy practices and responsible 
data handling.
Learn more about how we protect data
 
Additional resources:
• Amazon.com Privacy Notice
 
• AWS Privacy Notice 
• Advertising, Data Protection, and Privacy Policy 
• Law Enforcement Information Requests 
Responsible AI
Recognizing the transformative potential of AI for people 
and communities worldwide, we are dedicated to 
fostering its safe, transparent, and responsible 
development and deployment. Our responsible AI 
approach is guided by eight priorities: 
• Fairness: Evaluating the impact of AI on different 
groups and broader societal issues 
• Explainability: Understanding and evaluating system 
outputs, such as responses 
• Privacy and security: Appropriately obtaining, using, 
and protecting data and models 
• Safety: Preventing harmful system output and misuse 
• Controllability: Having mechanisms to monitor and 
steer AI system behavior 
• Veracity and robustness: Achieving correct system 
outputs, even with unexpected or adversarial inputs 
• Governance: Incorporating best practices into the AI 
supply chain, from technology providers to consumer 
applications 
• Transparency: Enabling consumers and companies to 
make informed choices about their engagement with 
an AI system 
The policies and frameworks that set expectations for 
Amazon’s and our customers’ development and 
deployment of AI and machine learning (ML) reflect these 
priorities. The AWS 
Responsible AI Policy applies to AI 
and ML services, features, and functionality provided by or 
through AWS. Our Frontier Model Safety Framework
 
establishes the processes Amazon uses to identify, assess, 
and manage potential severe risks that could arise as we 
develop more advanced and highly capable frontier
AI models. 
We also provide our internal teams and our customers 
with the tools and services they need to design, build, and 
operate AI systems responsibly
  . Amazon Bedrock 
Guardrails  and Model Evaluation in Amazon Bedrock  
make it easier to introduce safeguards, prevent harmful 
content, prevent hallucinations, and evaluate models 
against safety and accuracy criteria. Amazon Nova
 
Canvas applies an invisible watermark to all images it 
generates to promote the safe, secure, and transparent 
development of AI technology and help reduce the spread 
of disinformation. The detection solution can also check 
for the existence of the watermark, helping customers 
confirm whether an image was generated by Nova 
models. In addition, many of our AI Service Cards
 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 44 |

provide transparent documentation on intended use cases 
and limitations, responsible AI design choices, and 
deployment and performance optimization best practices 
for our AI services and models. This documentation helps 
AWS customers build their AI applications safely and 
evaluate models against key safety and accuracy criteria. 
We also provide guidance to customers using AI in the 
AWS cloud through the Well-Architected Framework 
Responsible AI Lens . 
To protect against performance flaws, we test our AI 
systems and models using a variety of techniques, 
including engaging human testers to probe an AI system 
for flaws in an adversarial style, automated benchmarking 
against publicly available and proprietary datasets, human 
evaluation of completions against proprietary datasets, 
and more. Testing our frontier models helps maintain 
alignment with our eight priorities for responsible AI.
To promote data quality and evade potentially harmful 
prompts in our Amazon Nova frontier models, we 
implement a comprehensive approach that models both 
prompts and responses and spans pre-training, 
evaluation, and deployment. 
We support AI safety and risk assessment and mitigation 
by engaging with organizations like the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, including with its AI 
Consortium and Center for AI Standards and Innovation. 
We also work with multi-stakeholder organizations, such 
as Thorn and the Frontier Model Forum, and actively 
participate in initiatives such as the G7 Hiroshima AI 
Process Reporting Framework .
Through initiatives such as Amazon Scholars , our team 
of AI and data scientists collaborate with leading 
academic institutions to tackle complex, evolving, and 
emerging responsible AI challenges, and help inform how 
we design, build, and operate our AI services. We 
accelerate our work in AI safety through initiatives such as 
our Amazon AGI San Francisco Lab
 and the Amazon 
Nova AI Challenge . These channels enable us to leverage 
the work of subject matter experts and discover promising 
approaches toward aligning our frontier models. 
As we integrate AI into our operations, we recognize that 
responsible AI use extends beyond how we deploy these 
technologies to how they are produced. The development 
of AI systems depends on physical and human 
infrastructures that carry environmental and human rights 
risks—from sourcing rare earth minerals and critical 
materials for hardware, to energy and water consumption 
in data centers, to labor conditions for data annotation 
and content moderation workers whose work underpins 
model training.
We are focused on addressing these upstream effects as 
part of our broader sustainability goals. Our Supply Chain 
Standards, human rights due diligence program, supply 
chain social audit processes—which extend to services 
vendors, including data annotation providers—and 
minerals sourcing policy and program together form the 
foundation of this effort. We are working to apply these 
established frameworks to the supply chains that support 
AI services, assessing environmental and human rights 
risks associated with AI-related hardware and services. We 
recognize that industry-wide standards for production-
side AI effects are still evolving, and we will engage with 
emerging frameworks, report transparently on our 
progress, and contribute to greater accountability across 
the sector.
Learn more about how Amazon is building AI with 
responsibility in mind 
Policy and Advocacy
Amazon’s public policy work serves customers 
by encouraging long-term legal and regulatory 
preparedness for existing and future businesses. 
We engage with policymakers on a wide range of issues 
and partner with multilateral organizations, industry 
associations, coalitions, and other stakeholders to 
advance our 
positions.
We publish an annual Political Engagement Policy and 
Statement that details U.S. lobbying activities and 
discloses spending on ballot initiatives and public 
organizations, as well as with state and local 
representatives. Amazon’s Senior Vice President, Chief 
Global Affairs & Legal Officer and the Audit Committee of 
the Board annually review this statement. They also 
review related procedures and a report on the company’s 
campaign contributions and lobbying expenses, including 
donations to other organizations that may engage in 
indirect lobbying on our behalf. In the EU, we disclose 
activities in the EU Transparency Register and national 
registries, where required.
Learn more about our policy positions
 
Overview Progress Appendix
Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Packaging Biodiversity Sustainable Shopping Human Rights Employee Experience Health and Safety Responsible Supply Chain Communities Responsible Business Practices
 45 |

Data Tables
Amazon’s 2019–2025 Carbon Footprint
Carbon intensity (grams of CO2e per $ of revenue) 182.4 157.1 152.3 127.2 113.6 109.0 112.8 3 %
Emissions Category (MMT CO2e)
Emissions from Direct Operations (Scope 1)* 5.76 9.62 12.11 13.02 14.22 15.13 15.37 2 %
Fossil Fuels 5.57 9.37 11.89 12.60 13.85 14.80 15.00 1 %
Refrigerants 0.19 0.25 0.22 0.42 0.37 0.33 0.37 13 %
Emissions from Purchased Electricity (Scope 2) 5.50 5.27 4.07 3.06 2.76 2.80 3.74 34 %
Emissions from Indirect Sources (Scope 3)* 39.91 45.75 55.36 49.29 48.30 51.62 61.74 20 %
Purchased Goods and Services (Amazon corporate purchases made for 
Amazon’s operations and services, Amazon-branded products) 16.15 15.78 16.71 18.63 11 %
Capital Goods 10.39 10.03 11.82 16.96 43 %
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities 4.40 5.03 4.55 5.70 25 %
Upstream Transportation and Distribution 10.10 8.88 9.61 10.87 13 %
Business Travel 0.79 0.82 0.98 1.04 6 %
Employee Commuting 2.93 2.70 2.76 2.98 8 %
Downstream Transportation and Distribution 3.31 3.52 3.73 4.01 8 %
Use of Sold Products (Amazon Devices) 1.18 1.50 1.43 1.52 6 %
End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products (Amazon Devices) 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 2 %
Amazon’s Carbon Footprint 51.17 60.64 71.54 65.37 65.28 69.55 80.85 16 %
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 YoY%
* Scopes 1, 3.1, 3.3, and 3.4 include the application of Environmental Attribute Certificates (EAC): 41.2K MTCO2e reduction of Scope 1 through Sustainable 
Aviation Fuel certificates (SAFc) and Renewable Diesel certificates (RD); 23.7K MTCO2e reduction in Scope 3.1 through sustainable agricultural certificates; 4.3K 
MTCO2e increase in Scope 3.3 accounting for the full life cycle emissions of Scope 1 SAFc and RD, and 138.8K reduction in Scope 3.4 MTCO2e through SAFc and 
Sustainable Marine Fuel certificates. The net impact from EACs to our emissions is 199.4K MTCO₂e. Learn more about carbon insets and EACs on Amazon’s 
Sustainability Exchange . 
† This table includes both on-site solar and contracted off-site utility-scale wind and solar projects, which are in various stages of development and construction. 
Of the projects included in the table, 80 were announced by January 2026. AWS aims to procure renewable electricity in the same grids where it consumes 
electricity. When AWS determines this is not feasible, AWS may procure renewable energy attributes in other locations.
Amazon Renewable Energy Projects †
Project Location Number of Projects Total MW Capacity¶
Australia 21 1,064
Austria 1 0.03
Belgium 1 1
Brazil 5 171
Canada 4 875
China 5 500
Czech Republic 1 4
Finland 14 987
France 7 17
Germany 13 1,241
Greece 9 699
India 56 1,907
Indonesia 1 355
Ireland 5 352
Italy 41 540
Japan 32 238
Malaysia 1 24
Netherlands 2 380
New Zealand 1 51
Poland 7 334
Portugal 1 219
Saudi Arabia 1 2
Singapore 2 67
South Africa 2 28
South Korea 1 60
Spain 126 3,922
Sweden 9 986
United Arab Emirates 2 3
United Kingdom 50 1,009
United States 291 25,633
Total 712 41,670
Overview Progress Appendix
Data Tables and Assurance Statements Endnotes Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
 46 | 
Assurance 
Statements
Please see our 2025 assurance statements at the
links below:
Renewable Energy Assurance 
Statement 
Devices Renewable Energy 
Assurance Statement 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Assurance Statement - Scope 1 
and 2 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Assurance Statement - Scope 3 
2022-2025 carbon footprints calculated in 
accordance with updated Carbon Methodology . 
¶ Total annual expected MW capacity when operational.
Environmental Attribute Certificate 
Assurance Statement

Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing
Overview Progress Appendix
Data Tables and Assurance Statements Endnotes Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
 47 | 
No Deforestation
To support the elimination of deforestation associated with raw materials and ingredients within our food and consumables Private Brands supply chains, Amazon has made commitments for the use of palm oil, paper and paper packaging, beef, soy, cocoa, coffee, and tea. 
Commodity or Material Goal or Ambition 2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) 2025 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
Palm Oil Source palm oil and derivatives in Amazon Private Brands food and 
consumable products and palm oil in 365 by Whole Foods Market 
food products from sources certified to the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil supply chain standard.
Whole Foods Market Am
azon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe Whole Foods Market Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Paper Products and Paper 
PackagingA
Source Private Brands paper products that are either recycled
or certified to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Sustainable Forestry 
Initiative, or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest
Certification standards.
365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Am
azon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
We strive to use sustainably sourced fiber in our grocery and 
consumable Private Brands paper-based primary packaging.
We continued to work with suppliers to increase the amount of fiber from
responsibly managed forests and/or recycled materials used in our
paper-based primary packaging.
We continued to work with suppliers to increase the amount of fiber from
responsibly managed forests and/or recycled materials used in our
paper-based primary packaging.
BeefB By 2025, source Private Brands beef from regions of low 
deforestation risk or with full supply chain traceability, 
demonstrating that the products did not contribute to deforestation. 365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands North 
America
Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
SoyC In Europe, source soy in our grocery and consumable Private Brands 
supply chains that is deforestation free by 2025, with a cut-off date 
of 2020.D
In 2024, 6% of soy in our European private brands supply chains was verified Deforestation- and 
Conversion-Free, an increase from 4% in 2023. A further 79% was in transition, with only 15% not certified. 
To support a continued focus on progress, Amazon Fresh Private Brands joined the Retail Soy Group 
in Europe.
In 2025, 10% of soy in our European private brands supply chains was verified Deforestation- and 
Conversion-Free, an increase from 6% in 2024.E The remaining 90% supported deforestation-free 
production via mass balance and regional credits. We continued working with the Retail Soy Group in 
Europe to address shared supply chain challenges and support the development of a sector where 
sustainable soy is the norm. 
We also seek to invest in landscape initiatives to protect forests and increase the availability of deforestation-
free soy.
CocoaF By 2025, source Private Brands chocolate bars, chocolate chips, 
and baking chocolate/powder products that are certified
by Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, Fair Trade USA, 
or other independently verified third-party certifications, such as 
Cocoa Horizons.
365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
CoffeeG By 2025, source Private Brands packaged bean, ground, instant, and 
liquid coffee products that are Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade 
International, or Fair Trade USA certified. 365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded and Whole Foods Market-
branded products
Amazon Private Brands North 
America
Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded and Whole Foods Market-
branded products
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe
TeaH
By 2025, source Private Brands bagged tea products based on the tea 
leaf (Camellia sinensis) certified by Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade 
International, or Fair Trade USA.
365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe did 
not have tea products in 2024.
365 by Whole Foods 
Market-branded products
Amazon Private Brands
North America
Amazon Private Brands Europe

Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing (continued)
Overview Progress Appendix
Data Tables and Assurance Statements Endnotes Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
 48 | 
Sustainable Seafood and Animal Welfare
Commodity or Material Goal or Ambition 2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) 2025 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
Seafood Source Responsibly Farmed or sustainable wild-caught fresh
and frozen seafood to Whole Foods Market’s Seafood Quality 
Standards . I
100%
365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded and Whole Foods Market-
branded products
100%
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
100%
365 by Whole Foods Market-
branded and Whole Foods Market-
branded products
100%
Amazon Private Brands 
North America
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Source Amazon Private Brands seafood products that have a third-
party sustainability certification or are actively working toward 
certification or engaged in a fishery improvement project (FIP).J
Eggs Source shell and liquid egg products to a cage-free or higher animal 
welfare standard.
100%
Egg products sold in Whole Foods 
Market dairy cases in the U.S. go 
beyond cage-free by meeting the 
Animal Welfare Standards for
 
Laying Hens 
 
100%
Of the eggs used in Whole Foods 
Markets' own kitchens and 
bakeries were cage-free or better.
100%
Amazon Private Brands and 
national brands shell and liquid 
egg selections sold by Amazon 
Fresh in North America were 
cage-free.
100%
Amazon Private Brands shell eggs 
sold in Europe were free-range or 
barn-raised.
100%
Egg products sold in Whole Foods 
Market dairy cases in the U.S. go 
beyond cage-free by meeting the 
Animal Welfare Standards for
 
Laying Hens 
 
100% 
Of the eggs used in Whole Foods 
Markets' own kitchens and 
bakeries were cage-free or better.
100%
Amazon Private Brands and 
national brands shell and liquid 
egg selections sold by Amazon 
Fresh in North America were 
cage-free.
100%
Amazon Private Brands shell eggs 
sold in Europe were free-range or 
barn-raised.
Pork Source fresh pork sold in the Whole Foods Market meat department 
in the U.S. and Canada that is crate-free and certified by the Global 
Animal Partnership or another third-party animal welfare program 
approved by Whole Foods Market.
100%
Whole Foods Market
100% 
Whole Foods Market
Our medium-term milestone is to source 100% of our private label 
fresh pork from group housing or crate-free systems by the end
of 2027. As of the end of 2024, 22% of the pork we sourced came from group housing or crate-free systems. Please 
see Amazon Fresh’s Animal Welfare Position
 for more details.
As of the end of 2025, 100% of the pork we sourced came from group housing or crate-free systems. 
All fresh pork sausages, bacon, and ribs sourced for our “by Amazon” 
private brands in the UK are Red Tractor Certified and meet the 
requirements of either the (1) British Meat Processors Association, 
Pork scheme, or (2) Irish Food Board, Bord Bia. Additionally, we only 
use certified welfare standards for the Spanish and Italian pork in our 
private brands packaged deli meats.
100% 
Amazon Private Brands Europe
100%
Amazon Private Brands Europe
Other Animal Proteins Source all fresh beef, pork, chicken, turkey, and lamb sold in
the meat department to Whole Foods Market’s Animal Welfare 
Standards .
100%
Whole Foods Market
100%
Whole Foods Market
Sourcing animal protein products within Amazon Private Brands in 
North America and Europe to the meet requirements under our 
animal welfare policy.K
We enhanced our commitment to animal welfare for Amazon Fresh private brands. Please see Amazon 
Fresh’s Animal Welfare Position
 for more details.
We continued our commitment to animal welfare for Amazon Fresh private brands.

Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing (continued)
A Whole Foods Market sells only recycled materials or FSC-certified products. 
Scope includes Amazon Private Brands paper towel, toilet paper, facial 
tissues, baking paper, coffee filter, paper dishware, and napkin products.
B Scope covers the Whole Foods Market Private Brands beef and meat sold in 
the meat department; fresh or frozen beef in Amazon Private Brands in North 
America and Europe.
C Scope covers Amazon and Whole Foods Market Private Brands and meat 
departments in North America, including Tiers 2 and 3 of the Consumer 
Goods Forum Soy Ladder Framework. In Europe, the scope covers soy in Tiers 
1-4. A cut-off date of 2020 means that the soy has not been sourced from 
land that has been subject to deforestation since the end of 2020.
D In 2023, we conducted a risk assessment of the soy in Amazon and Whole 
Foods Market Private Brands supply chains with a third-party consultancy. 
Through this assessment, we determined that within North America, the 
majority of the soy in our private brands animal protein and meat-counter 
supply chains is domestically sourced and is thus unlikely to pose a 
deforestation risk.
E DCF soy is soy certified using a segregated chain of custody certification 
scheme benchmarked to the European Feed Manufacturers' Federation 
(FEFAC) Soy Sourcing Guidelines to achieve deforestation and conversion free 
criteria, or soy that is sourced from outside South America and is considered 
“low risk.”
F For Whole Foods Market, only Fair Trade USA and Fairtrade International are 
accepted.
G Scope for Amazon North America and Europe excludes extracts and 
flavorings. 
H Scope excludes matcha, mixes, and “ready-to-drink” beverages. 
I Scope includes all products in Whole Foods Market’s seafood department, 
including frozen and breaded options, appetizers, smoked seafood, and 
seafood dips, as well as canned seafood in our grocery aisle. Whole Foods 
Market sells only wild-caught seafood from fisheries that are certified 
sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) or rated Green or Yellow 
by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch Program. All our farmed 
seafood is Responsibly Farmed seafood. Canned tuna in grocery and in Whole 
Foods Market’s own kitchens is traceable to the boats and must be sourced 
from fisheries that are using one-by-one catch methods and are certified 
sustainable by the MSC or rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay 
Aquarium Seafood Watch program.
J Scope includes Amazon Private Brands products sold in North America and 
Europe in which seafood constitutes more than 5% of product or is in the top 
three ingredients. Excludes sauces, marinades, and pet food. The following 
certifications or programs are accepted for wild-caught seafood: Marine 
Stewardship Council; rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay Aquarium 
Seafood Watch program; or rated A, B, or C in an FIP. The following are 
accepted for farmed seafood: Aquaculture Stewardship Council, European 
organic or Natureland organic, Best Aquaculture Practices ≥ 2-star, or 
GLOBALG.A.P.
K (1) Suppliers must comply with relevant legislation and regulations, as a 
foundational requirement, (2) suppliers must ensure that all animals raised 
and slaughtered are subject to a credible industry animal care assurance 
program or third-party animal welfare certification, (3) suppliers must be able 
to trace animal protein private brands products sourced by Amazon back to 
either, in order of preference, the farm, the co-op/processor, or to the 
slaughter plant, (4) suppliers must have a formal policy to address 
noncompliance with a relevant industry animal care assurance program or 
third-party animal welfare certification, and any noncompliance or instance
of animal cruelty, neglect, or abuse must be reported to Amazon.
Overview Progress Appendix
Data Tables and Assurance Statements Endnotes Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
 49 | 
Apparel
Commodity or Material Goal or Ambition 2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) 2025 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition)
Cotton Source all cotton for Amazon Private Brands apparel products from 
more sustainable sources, which we define as being sourced from 
recycled materials, farms certified as producing organic cotton, 
through the Better Cotton Initiative or through the U.S. Cotton 
Trust Protocol.
100% 
Amazon Private Brands apparel products
100% 
Amazon Private Brands apparel products
Leather Source leather apparel and shoe products from more sustainable 
sources, which we define as being sourced from tanneries that meet 
the Leather Working Group’s Bronze level or higher. Amazon Private Brands apparel or shoes Amazon Private Brands apparel or shoes
Manufactured  
Cellulosic Fibers
Source manufactured cellulosic fibers used in Amazon Private Brands 
apparel products—including rayon, viscose, lyocell, and modal—from 
more sustainable sources. We use the nonprofit Canopy’s tools and 
reports to help avoid fibers sourced from endangered forests, 
endangered species’ habitats, or other controversial sources.
Amazon Private Brands apparel products Amazon Private Brands apparel products
Recycled Fabrics Increase the use of recycled fabrics in Amazon Private Brands apparel 
products, including moving from conventional to recycled polyester 
and launching products made from innovative recycled fibers.
Polyester in Amazon Private Brands apparel was recycled polyester. Polyester in Amazon Private Brands apparel was recycled polyester.

Endnotes
1. As detailed in our Renewable Energy Methodology , we calculate the 
percentage of our electricity consumption that is matched with renewable 
energy by adding the amount of energy generated from renewable energy 
projects enabled by Amazon plus renewable energy in the grids where 
Amazon operates then dividing by Amazon's global electricity use.
2."What If More People Bought Groceries Online Instead of Driving to a 
Store?" United States Environmental Protection Agency, 30 March 2026, 
https://www.epa.gov/greenvehicles/what-if-more-people-bought-groceries-
online-instead-driving-store 
3. On-premises refers to organizations running hardware and software within 
their own physical space.
4. We measure both carbon emissions and carbon intensity to provide a 
complete picture of our progress toward our 2040 goal. Carbon emissions 
reduction and neutralization define our Climate Pledge commitment, while 
carbon intensity—measured in grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar 
of revenue (gCO2e/$Revenue)—helps us assess how we are decoupling 
business growth from carbon emissions growth over time. 
5. In 2025, we began reporting grams carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of 
revenue and have updated carbon intensity figures for all years reported 
(from per dollar of gross merchandise sales) to better align to independent 
reporting standards. Learn more about how we calculate carbon intensity
 
6. In 2024, we reported that 90% of our highest-emitting suppliers had 
decarbonization plans in place, which represented 50% of our carbon 
emissions. In 2025, we expanded the scope of our top suppliers to include 
those that represent 70% of our Scope 3 emissions.
7. A "credible decarbonization plan" includes: (1) a verified reduction target 
(e.g., TCP signatory, public commitment, private commitment), validated 
through AI-powered scanning of public disclosures and commitments, and (2) 
measurable progress (e.g., public disclosure, direct data sharing).
8. The embodied carbon calculation uses the Carbon Leadership Forum’s (CLF) 
2021 baseline. CLF baselines represent an estimate of industry-average GHG 
emissions for construction materials manufactured in North America.
9. O
ne ton of freight carried one mile.
10. Ship4wd Editorial Team. "Sea Freight vs Air Freight: Carbon Footprint 
& Sustainability." Ship4wd, 23 Dec. 2025, https://ship4wd.com/logistics-
shipping/sea-freight-air-freight-carbon-footprint 
11. SAF purchases include both blended fuel (physically mixed with 
conventional jet fuel and used in our operations) and book-and-claim 
arrangements (where we purchase the environmental attributes of SAF 
produced and used elsewhere in the aviation system, supporting market 
growth even where physical delivery is not yet possible).
12. Electric delivery vehicles include four-wheel (vans), three-wheel, 
two-wheel, and e-mopeds.
13. PUE measures the energy consumed by a data center to power computing 
equipment, cooling, and other data center infrastructure to support 
operations. A lower PUE value indicates greater efficiency. The theoretical 
minimum PUE of 1.0 would imply that all the energy consumed by a data 
center is being used to power computing equipment and that none is wasted 
on cooling or other infrastructure. Industry averages are as estimated by the 
International Data Corporation, 2H24 Datacenter Trends: Sustainable 
Datacenter Builds and CO2 Emissions Doc # US51911924, January 2025. 
AWS efficiency data are as estimated in research .
14. Carbon-free energy includes electricity generated from sources that 
produce no direct carbon emissions—such as wind, solar, nuclear, 
hydroelectric, and geothermal—as well as site energy contracts and green 
tariffs with local utilities that add new renewable projects to the grid.
15. Scopes 1, 3.1, 3.3, and 3.4 include the application of Environmental 
Attribute Certificates (EACs): 41.2K metric tons of CO2e reduction of Scope 1 
through Sustainable Aviation Fuel certificates (SAFc) and Renewable Diesel 
certificates (RD); 23.7K metric tons of CO2e reduction in Scope 3.1 through 
sustainable agricultural certificates; 4.3K metric tons of CO2e increase in 
Scope 3.3 accounting for the full life cycle carbon emissions of Scope 1 SAFc 
and RD; and 138.8K metric tons of CO2e reduction in Scope 3.4 through SAFc 
and Sustainable Marine Fuel certificates. The net impact from EACs to our 
emissions is 199.4K MTCO₂e. Learn more about carbon insets and EACs on 
Amazon’s Sustainability Exchange
 
16. We measure progress against this goal by adding together reused water 
and water from replenishment and dividing that number by total water 
withdrawal minus water from sustainable sources, multiplied by 100%, as 
described in our Water Positive Methodology
 .
17. The water stress levels in this chart use WRI's 2030 business-as-usual 
baseline scenario, consider source water stress, and cover only leased and 
owned data centers.
18. Goal scope is food that is considered inventory. We measure progress in 
terms of food waste intensity, or the amount of food waste generated as a 
percentage of total food handled within Amazon.
19. UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill methodology defines Silver-level sites as 
those diverting 90%–94%; Gold-level sites as those diverting 95%–99%; 
and Platinum-level sites as those diverting 100% of waste, according to the 
UL 2799 standard.
20. Carbon emissions abated from reuse and resale of data center hardware.
21. Global includes the following regions and countries: North America (U.S. 
and Canada), Europe (Europe and UK), and Rest of World (Australia, Brazil, 
Egypt, India, Japan, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, and the 
United Arab Emirates).
22. The scope of these metrics includes inbound prep packaging, which 
includes some plastic, as well as outbound delivery packaging. In Europe, 
we have eliminated plastic from outbound delivery packaging.
23. Schedule 7A of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (as inserted by 
Schedule 14 of the Environment Act 2021).
24. DCF soy is soy certified using a segregated chain of custody certification 
scheme benchmarked to the European Feed Manufacturers' Federation 
(FEFAC) Soy Sourcing Guidelines to achieve deforestation- and conversion-
free criteria, or soy that is sourced from outside South America and is 
considered 'low risk'. Learn more about how mass balance and retail offset 
credits are calculated in the Retail Soy Group’s Public Accounting 
Guidelines 
25. Based on data from the U.S. and Europe. These results are not a 
guarantee of future performance.
26. A switch is defined as a customer who purchases a product recognized by 
certifications in the Climate Pledge Friendly program and has purchased only 
products not recognized by Climate Pledge Friendly within the past two years 
in the same product category.
27. The concept of salience uses the lens of risk to people, not to the 
business, as the starting point, while recognizing that where risks to people’s 
human rights are greatest, there is often strong convergence with risks to 
the business.
28. Addressed is defined as assessed, investigated, and resolved,
where applicable.
29. One 90-day supply typically costs less than three 30-day refills.
30. All these numbers and other comparisons are based on the rates Amazon 
has reported to applicable regulators or are otherwise derived from the same 
tracking systems used for that reporting.
31. Global operations in reference to health and safety rates means 
fulfillment (Amazon Robotics sortable, traditional non-sort, in-bound cross 
dock), transportation (sort center, delivery station, and air), and Amazon 
Robotics operations facilities.
32. We conduct supplier audits for businesses manufacturing 
Amazon-branded products; products under Amazon’s patent or trademark; 
and third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods providers in our 
logistics, warehousing, and construction supply chain.
33. Includes data for businesses manufacturing Amazon-branded products, 
products under Amazon’s patent or trademark, third-party labor, service, and 
not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, warehousing, and construction 
supply chain.
34. Data for 2023 represent findings from audits of Amazon-branded product 
suppliers only. Data for 2024 and 2025 have an expanded scope that includes 
both Amazon-branded product suppliers and third party labor, service, and 
not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, warehousing, and construction 
supply chain.
35. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1.2 pounds is the 
equivalent to one meal. $1 helps to provide at least 10 meals secured by 
Feeding America
 on behalf of local partner food banks.
Overview Progress Appendix
Data Tables and Assurance Statements Endnotes Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements
 50 | 
On the cover
Image 1: At our new delivery station in Elkhart, Indiana, a 
bioretention pond stores and filters stormwater, increasing on-site 
carbon sequestration and biodiversity.
Image 2: Through the Right Now Climate Fund, Amazon supports 
the work of ICLEI South Asia to establish urban food gardens in city 
schools throughout India, encouraging healthy eating and offering 
hands-on learning.
Image 3: We work to eliminate unnecessary packaging while 
optimizing material, weight, and recyclability.

The information and opinions contained in this report are provided as of the 
date of this report and are subject to change without notice. Amazon does 
not undertake to update or revise any such statements. This report represents 
current Amazon policy and intent and is not intended to create legal rights or 
obligations. This report may contain, or incorporate by reference, public 
information not separately reviewed, approved, or endorsed by Amazon, and 
no representation, warranty, or undertaking is made by Amazon as to the 
accuracy, reasonableness, or completeness of such information. Inclusion of 
information in this report may be based on a variety of standards, 
frameworks, and considerations and is not an indication that the subject or 
information is material to Amazon’s business, strategy, outlook, operating 
results, or financial condition or to its stakeholders, nor material as it relates 
to Amazon’s impact on other parties or sustainability matters. This report was 
originally drafted in English and then translated into other languages. The 
English version is the authoritative version.
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than 
statements of historical or current facts, including statements regarding our 
plans, initiatives, projections, goals, commitments, expectations, or prospects, 
are forward-looking. These forward-looking statements are inherently 
uncertain and difficult to predict. We use words such as aim, anticipate, 
believe, commit, drive, estimate, ensure, expect, goal, intend, may, mission, 
plan, project, seek, strategy, strive, target, will, or similar expressions to 
identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect 
management’s current expectations and inherently involve risks and 
uncertainties. Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety 
of reasons, including, among others, assumptions not being realized, 
initiatives or policies not being adopted, changing climate-related conditions 
and weather events, scientific or technological developments, evolving 
sustainability strategies, changes in consumer demand for carbon markets, 
evolving government regulations or policies, our expansion into new 
products; services; technologies; and geographic regions, or other changes in 
circumstances, as well as the factors set forth in the “Risk Factors” section of 
Amazon’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings. 
The standards of measurement and performance contained in the report are 
developing and based on assumptions, and no assurance can be given that 
any plan, initiative, projection, goal, commitment, expectation, or prospect set 
forth in this report can or will be achieved.
Published July 2026
sustainability.aboutamazon.com
Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements