Sustainability 
Report
2025
AWS Summary
Amazon

About AWS
AWS is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly 
adopted cloud offering, with millions of global users 
depending on it every day. To build a more sustainable 
business for our customers and for the world we all share, 
we are designing data centers to provide the efficient, 
resilient service our customers expect while minimizing 
our environmental footprint—and theirs.
The data within this summary reflects progress from 
January 1 through December 31, 2025, unless otherwise 
indicated. All financial figures are reported in U.S. 
dollars ($), unless otherwise stated. 
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
2 | 
How to Navigate This Report
Look for these symbols throughout this report:
A link to a website
A link within the report
A link to a download
Learn more about Amazon’s overall 
progress in our 2025 Sustainability Report 
Overview
2 About AWS
3 2025 Year in Review
4 AI for Sustainability
6 Climate and Energy
8 Water
10 Waste and Circularity
11 Biodiversity
12 Human Rights
13 Employee Experience
13 Responsible Supply Chain
14 Communities
15 Endnotes
At our data centers, new components are being 
rolled out that combine advances in power, 
cooling, and hardware to help reduce energy and 
water consumption.
Learn more about our cover photos

2025 Year in Review
As we reflect on 2025, we are proud of our achievements. We have continued
to strengthen our environmental practices, enhance our value chain, support
our employees and communities, and foster a safer, more inclusive workplace.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
3 | 
33
Data centers constructed with
lower-carbon steel in 2025, 
in addition to 67 since 2023
1.14
Global Power Usage Effectiveness 
for AWS data centers, better than 
the public cloud industry average
of 1.25
100%
Of the electricity consumed by Amazon
was matched with renewable energy sources 
in 2025, for the third consecutive year
$17.9M
In AWS cloud and AI technology 
distributed for education
9.4B
Liters of water returned to 
communities from active 
replenishment projects at the end
of 2025, with more than 18 billion 
liters of total annual replenishment 
volume contracted for future years
0.12
L/kWh global Water Use 
Effectiveness for AWS data centers, 
improved 20% from 2024 and 52% 
since 2021
130
AWS data centers contracted to use 
reclaimed water for cooling across 
six countries
225K
Metric tons of CO 2e prevented by 
reusing and reselling data center 
hardware since 2020
14.4K
Unemployed or underemployed 
individuals trained through AWS
re/Start 12-week training sessions 
144.5K
Learners connected to employers 
through the AWS Skills to Jobs 
Tech Alliance 
AWS will be water positive across 
data centers by 2030, returning 
more water to communities than 
we use in our direct data center 
operations
75% 
Of the way toward meeting our data 
center water positive goal

AI for 
Sustainability
From the recommendation engines that personalize 
shopping experiences to the AI-powered robots that 
optimize order fulfillment in our warehouses, we have 
developed and deployed artificial intelligence (AI) and 
machine learning (ML) models to power customer 
experiences and internal operations for over 25 years. One 
of our longest-standing examples of using AI to make 
customers’ lives easier is Alexa, our AI assistant, which 
launched more than a decade ago.
AI for Efficiency
We use AI to improve efficiency and address sustainability 
challenges across our value chain. Not only do we develop 
and deploy our own AI solutions, we also support 
partners, industry organizations, and coalitions through 
funding, accelerator programs, and collaborative 
initiatives. For example, in 2025, our Amazon 
Sustainability Accelerator welcomed Greyparrot, which 
has developed a computer vision system that observes 
waste conveyor belts to identify and categorize more than 
110 different types of waste in real time.
AI for Innovation and Access
We also focus on democratizing access to the benefits of 
AI and helping develop AI expertise globally, empowering 
others to address the world’s most urgent and complex 
challenges. The Idaho National Laboratory and Lawrence 
Livermore National Laboratory are using our AI 
technology to help advance the next generation of safe 
nuclear energy. The AWS Education Equity Initiative
 , a 
$100 million, five-year investment in AI technology, 
expands access to education and technical skills globally. 
We also help reduce barriers to deploying fast, capable AI 
with our cost-effective Amazon Nova
 portfolio of AI 
models and services, designed to help customers move 
from experimentation to reliable production at scale.
Responsible AI
As we continue to scale our AI capabilities and 
democratize access to the benefits of AI, we also take 
responsibility for mitigating the risks of our technology. 
Our policies and tools provide guardrails for deploying AI 
in our infrastructure. We actively collaborate to advance 
standards for responsible AI, through efforts such as the 
G7 AI Hiroshima International Process Code of Conduct, 
the U.S. Artificial Intelligence Safety Institute Consortium, 
and the Frontier Model Forum. We also developed a 
Frontier Model Safety Framework
 that outlines the 
protocols we follow to ensure that the frontier models we 
develop do not exceed specified risk thresholds without 
appropriate safeguards in place.
Although AI can increase energy and water demand in 
data centers, we are pioneering designs such as 
configurable liquid-to-chip cooling
 that substantially 
reduce both. We are committed to sourcing carbon-free 
energy and returning more water to our communities 
than we withdraw for our data center operations. 
Additionally, we pay for the full electricity costs of our 
data centers while making substantial investments in 
building new energy generation and transmission 
infrastructure that benefits our broader communities.
At the root of this work is our core belief that AI is not 
just a tool but can be a turning point for sustainability 
when it is developed and deployed responsibly. We 
provide details on our efforts to leverage AI for 
sustainability and improve the sustainability of AI 
throughout this summary. Click on the links in the 
infographic to the right to learn more.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
4 | 
Biodiversity
In 2025, Amazon adopted use of an AI 
tool, BNG.AI, to enable rapid assessment 
of the biodiversity value of potential 
development sites in the UK.
Learn more here
 
Waste and Circularity
In 2025, we began using AI-powered 
robots to demanufacture AWS 
equipment, securely disassembling 
servers into components to be securely 
reused or recycled.
Learn more here
 
Climate and Energy
As of 2025, AI utility monitoring tools 
quickly identify leaks, malfunctioning 
HVAC and refrigeration systems, and 
operational opportunities at 820 
Amazon buildings.
Learn more here
 
Employee Experience
To improve access to benefits and 
compensation information, we 
enhanced our internal A to Z app and 
website with an AI assistant, Aza, that 
offers easily accessible and personalized 
information about benefits, health care, 
and paid time off.
Learn more here
 
Water
We were a founding partner in the 
launch of the Water-AI Nexus Center 
of Excellence, a collaborative effort 
to advance water sustainability for 
AI infrastructure.
Learn more here
 
Responsible Supply Chain
AI modeling tools help identify suppliers 
at higher risk of not meeting our Supply 
Chain Standards, streamlining processes 
and aiding our experts to prioritize which 
suppliers to audit.
Learn more here
 
eHuman Rights
In 2025, Amazon used AI to transform data 
into actionable insights to inform priorities, 
due diligence, and decision making across 
our global supplier network.
Learn more here
 
Responsible Business Practices
Recognizing the transformative potential 
of AI, we embed eight priorities for 
responsible development and 
deployment of AI in our policies, 
frameworks, and tools.
Learn more here
 
Scaling AI across Our Value Chain

Recognizing the transformative potential of AI for people 
and communities worldwide, we are dedicated to 
fostering its safe, transparent, and responsible 
development and deployment. Our responsible AI 
approach is guided by eight priorities: 
• Fairness: Evaluating the impact of AI on different 
groups and broader societal issues 
• Explainability: Understanding and evaluating system 
outputs, such as responses 
• Privacy and security: Appropriately obtaining, using, 
and protecting data and models 
• Safety: Preventing harmful system output and misuse 
• Controllability: Having mechanisms to monitor and 
steer AI system behavior 
• Veracity and robustness: Achieving correct system 
outputs, even with unexpected or adversarial inputs 
• Governance: Incorporating best practices into
the AI supply chain, from technology providers to
consumer applications 
• Transparency: Enabling consumers and companies to 
make informed choices about their engagement with an 
AI system 
The policies and frameworks that set expectations for 
Amazon’s and our customers’ development and deployment 
of AI and ML reflect these priorities. The AWS Responsible 
AI Policy applies to AI and ML services, features, and 
functionality provided by or through AWS. Our Frontier 
Model Safety Framework establishes the processes 
Amazon uses to identify, assess, and manage potential 
severe risks that could arise as we develop more advanced 
and highly capable frontier AI models. 
We also provide our internal teams and our customers 
with the tools and services they need to design, build, and 
operate AI systems responsibly
  . Amazon Bedrock 
Guardrails  and Model Evaluation in Amazon Bedrock  
make it easier to introduce safeguards, prevent harmful 
content, prevent hallucinations, and evaluate models 
against safety and accuracy criteria. Amazon Nova Canvas
 
applies an invisible watermark to all images it generates 
to promote the safe, secure, and transparent development 
of AI technology and help reduce the spread of 
disinformation. The detection solution can also check for 
the existence of the watermark, helping customers 
confirm whether an image was generated by Nova 
models. In addition, many of our AI Service Cards
 
provide transparent documentation on intended use cases 
and limitations, responsible AI design choices, and 
deployment and performance optimization best practices 
for our AI services and models. This documentation helps 
AWS customers build their AI applications safely and 
evaluate models against key safety and accuracy criteria. 
We also provide guidance to customers using AI in the 
AWS cloud through the Well-Architected Framework 
Responsible AI Lens . 
To protect against performance flaws, we test our AI 
systems and models using a variety of techniques, 
including engaging human testers to probe an AI system 
for flaws in an adversarial style, automated benchmarking 
against publicly available and proprietary datasets, human 
evaluation of completions against proprietary datasets, 
and more. Testing our frontier models helps maintain 
alignment with our eight priorities for responsible AI.
To promote data quality and evade potentially harmful 
prompts in our Amazon Nova frontier models, we 
implement a comprehensive approach that models both 
prompts and responses and spans pre-training, 
evaluation, and deployment. 
We support AI safety and risk assessment and mitigation 
by engaging with organizations like the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, including with its AI 
Consortium and Center for AI Standards and Innovation. 
We also work with multi-stakeholder organizations, such 
as Thorn and the Frontier Model Forum, and actively 
participate in initiatives such as the G7 Hiroshima AI 
Process Reporting Framework .
Through initiatives such as Amazon Scholars , our team 
of AI and data scientists collaborate with leading 
academic institutions to tackle complex, evolving, and 
emerging responsible AI challenges, and help inform how 
we design, build, and operate our AI services. We 
accelerate our work in AI safety through initiatives such as 
our Amazon AGI San Francisco Lab
 and the Amazon 
Nova AI Challenge . These channels enable us to leverage 
the work of subject matter experts and discover promising 
approaches toward aligning our frontier models. 
As we integrate AI into our operations, we recognize that 
responsible AI use extends beyond how we deploy these 
technologies to how they are produced. The development 
of AI systems depends on physical and human 
infrastructures that carry environmental and human rights 
risks—from sourcing rare earth minerals and critical 
materials for hardware, to energy and water consumption 
in data centers, to labor conditions for data annotation 
and content moderation workers whose work underpins 
model training.
We are focused on addressing these upstream effects as 
part of our broader sustainability goals. Our Supply Chain 
Standards, human rights due diligence program, supply 
chain social audit processes—which extend to services 
vendors, including data annotation providers—and 
minerals sourcing policy and program together form the 
foundation of this effort. We are working to apply these 
established frameworks to the supply chains that support 
AI services, assessing environmental and human rights 
risks associated with AI-related hardware and services. We 
recognize that industry-wide standards for production-
side AI effects are still evolving, and we will engage with 
emerging frameworks, report transparently on our 
progress, and contribute to greater accountability across 
the sector.
Learn more about how Amazon is building AI with 
responsibility in mind 
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
5 | 
How AI Benefits 
Communities
In 2025, we integrated cloud and AI technology across 
community initiatives to automate processes, analyze 
community sentiment, and enable data-driven decisions. 
In addition to leveraging AI in ways that directly inform 
our work, we also equip nonprofit partners and 
organizations reaching underserved audiences with
tech-enabled tools to scale their impact. In 2025, we:
• Provided more than 50,000 learners globally with 
access to foundational AI skills via AWS Educate, hands-
on learning with PartyRock and Quick, and access to 
AWS AI certifications and Udacity Nanodegree through 
AI & ML Scholars
 
• Supported 575 customers in education, health, and 
climate with AWS cloud and AI technology
• Provided AWS cloud and AI training to over 100 
customers from 34 countries through Amazon’s Social 
Entrepreneur Accelerators
• Invested $1 million in 43 organizations and projects to 
identify practical AI solutions that advance the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
Learn more about how we are integrating AI across 
community initiatives

Climate and 
Energy
We have a responsibility to lead meaningful climate action 
and carbon emissions reductions. Our approach is grounded 
in climate science and centers on The Climate Pledge
 , our 
commitment to reach net-zero carbon emissions across our 
global operations by 2040. We use our scale and resources 
to drive transformative progress across our operations and 
supply chain, while demonstrating that ambitious climate 
action can align with exceptional customer service, business 
growth, good jobs, and thriving communities. 
We aim to achieve net-zero carbon emissions through 
decarbonization of our operations and supply chain, then 
neutralizing any residual emissions. Amazon’s approach 
spans five areas: 
• Addressing emissions from purchased electricity by 
driving data center and building efficiency and investing 
in carbon-free energy, including solar, wind, nuclear, and 
battery storage 
• Reducing supply chain emissions by engaging suppliers 
to set targets and reduce emissions, embedding lower-
carbon materials in our buildings, and scaling lower-
carbon fuels in our logistics network 
• Decarbonizing our direct operations through delivery 
efficiency, electric vehicles, lower-carbon fuels, and 
lower-carbon heating and cooling systems 
• Scaling carbon neutralization to account for residual 
emissions through nature-based solutions, carbon 
removal technologies, and super pollutant abatement
 
• Driving collective action through The Climate Pledge, 
joint action projects, climate finance, innovation 
investment, and policy advocacy 
Optimizing Global Cloud 
Infrastructure
When businesses and governments choose our data centers, 
they are choosing infrastructure purpose-built to do more 
with less energy. Our customer obsession drives us to 
deliver the highest performance with the lowest possible 
energy use. That means every AI model trained, every 
application hosted, and every workload processed runs on 
some of the most efficient infrastructure in the world. 
To meet strong customer demand, in 2025 we added more 
data center capacity globally than any other company, 
including more than 1.2 gigawatt (GW) in Q4 alone, and we 
expect AI and cloud services to continue growing. 
As we grow, we invest relentlessly in efficiency. When a 
business moves from an on-premises data center to AWS, 
research
 estimates that data is processed 4.1 times more 
efficiently.1 Our custom-designed chips—including 
Trainium3 for AI model training—offer over five times higher 
output tokens (i.e., AI-generated responses) per megawatt 
(MW) of power and four times better performance per MW 
than its predecessor, while maintaining the same latency or 
response time per user. We also collaborate with partners 
like NVIDIA, whose GPU architectures power a broad range 
of AI workloads across AWS, building on more than 15 years 
of joint innovation. Together, these investments enable 
customers like Anthropic and OpenAI to scale their most 
demanding AI workloads with greater energy efficiency. 
Beyond silicon, we drive efficiency through software and 
process improvements that optimize server utilization across 
our fleet and by developing more efficient network 
architecture using our custom networking components. We 
also continue scaling configurable liquid-to-chip cooling
 in 
both new and existing data centers. Instead of cooling entire 
buildings, we deliver precision cooling directly where heat is 
generated—at the chip. This approach reduces mechanical 
energy consumption compared to traditional cooling 
methods by up to 50% during peak cooling—without 
increasing water usage on a per MW basis.
To track and provide transparency on how efficiently our 
data centers use energy, we measure Power Usage 
Effectiveness (PUE)—a ratio where 1.0 would mean that 
every watt of electricity goes directly to computing, with 
nothing lost to cooling, lighting, or other overhead. In 2025, 
AWS’s global data centers achieved a global PUE of 1.14, 
nearly 9% better than the public cloud industry average of 
1.25 and 30% better than the on-premises enterprise data 
center average of 1.63.2 Our scale allows us to achieve higher 
resource utilization and energy efficiency than organizations 
using their own hardware.
The AWS Energy Management System program standardizes 
our continual energy efficiency improvement efforts 
globally. Amazon data centers and services in 35 countries—
including all of our data centers in Europe, the Middle East, 
and Africa (EMEA), Singapore, and Indonesia—were ISO 
50001 Energy Management certified in 2025. 
Learn more about AWS regional PUE
 and ISO 50001 
We also use AI to identify underperforming equipment 
and operational opportunities. As of the end of 2025, 820 
Amazon buildings used AI tools to monitor HVAC and 
water utilities.
Scaling Carbon-Free Energy
Amazon has invested billions of dollars scaling carbon-
free energy, which has enabled more than 712 projects in 
30 countries as of January 2026—including 80 new 
projects in 2025—representing 42 GW of carbon-free 
energy capacity, enough to power 13 million U.S. homes 
for a year and avoid 48 million metric tons of CO2e once 
fully operational.3 These investments enabled Amazon to 
match 100% of the electricity consumed by our 
operations with renewable energy sources for the third 
year in a row.4
Carbon-free energy includes renewable energy 
technologies, such as wind and solar farms, on-site 
rooftop solar systems, hydroelectric, geothermal, 
and nuclear energy. There is no one-size-fits-all solution 
when it comes to transitioning to carbon-free energy, 
and we believe that all viable and scalable options should 
be considered. As the energy needs of our business and 
customers continue to grow, we are investing in carbon-
free energy that can both help power our operations and 
bring new sources of energy to the grid in communities 
around the world. 
The transition to carbon-free energy creates meaningful 
economic opportunities in communities where energy 
projects are built and operated, while also driving the 
modernization and resilience of energy infrastructure. 
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
6 | 
Trainium3 UltraServers deliver higher performance 
in compute power, energy efficiency, and memory 
bandwidth.

In 2025, an independent research study commissioned 
by Amazon confirmed that AWS data centers in the U.S. 
pay the full costs of electricity, without raising costs for 
other ratepayers, and generate surplus revenue that 
utilities can use to invest in grid improvements for 
customers.
BloombergNEF continues to recognize Amazon as one of 
the world's leading corporate purchasers of carbon-free 
energy, in addition to building the largest carbon-free 
energy portfolio of any corporation globally. In 2025, 
we achieved:
• 131,000 GW-hours (GWh) of carbon-free energy 
production annually.
• 375 utility-scale projects in Amazon’s portfolio globally, 
including 264 solar, 109 wind, and two nuclear projects 
as of January 2026.
• 10 new carbon-free energy projects announced in the 
U.S. as of January 2026, which will add 5.5 GW of 
capacity to the grid once fully operational. In total, 
Amazon has announced 291 projects across 30 states, 
which will bring 25.6 GW of expected capacity to the 
grid once fully operational. 
• 55 new carbon-free energy projects announced in 
Europe as of January 2026, which will add 1.4 GW of 
capacity to the grid once fully operational. In total, 
Amazon has announced 287 projects across 15 
countries, which will bring 10.7 GW of expected capacity 
to the grid once fully operational. 
• 11 new carbon-free energy projects in Australia and 
three in India—announced as of January 2026, adding 
more than 565 MW of capacity in Australia and 581 MW 
in India, respectively.
To meet our climate commitments and growing energy 
demands—particularly for AI and cloud services—we are 
building a diverse carbon-free energy portfolio through 
solar, wind, and nuclear investments. In the future, we will 
report on the percentage of carbon-free energy used to 
power our operations.
Scaling nuclear power is one of our top priorities, while we 
continue to invest in wind and solar capacity and explore 
other technologies like geothermal, hydro, and battery 
storage. Amazon is working with utilities, regulators, and 
nuclear technology companies to explore ways to improve 
the safety and output of traditional nuclear plants and 
supporting development of small modular reactors (SMRs)
—advanced nuclear reactors with a small physical 
footprint that enables faster construction and closer 
proximity to power grids.
Amazon has made an investment in SMR developer 
X-energy to help bring 5 GW of new nuclear energy to 
the U.S. grid by 2039. As part of this initiative, Amazon is 
helping build one of the first modular nuclear reactor 
facilities in the U.S. The project, the Cascade Advanced 
Energy Facility, is a collaboration with Washington State 
utility Energy Northwest and X-energy. In 2025, Amazon 
and X-energy also agreed to collaborate with South 
Korea’s Doosan Enerbility and Korea Hydro & Nuclear 
Power to accelerate the deployment of new SMRs in the 
U.S. We also expanded our existing nuclear energy 
relationship with Talen Energy , which will provide 1,900 
MW of carbon-free nuclear power through 2042, with 
options to extend. These long-term contracts provide 
price stability for nuclear facilities, helping prevent the 
kind of market-driven shutdowns that have removed 
nuclear capacity from the grid.
We are continuing to expand battery capacity to collect 
and store carbon-free energy to use when other energy 
sources may be unavailable—such as at night or during 
periods of high demand—to support grid stability. By the 
end of 2025, Amazon had 15 solar energy projects paired 
with battery energy storage systems, representing 2.3 GW 
of capacity, up from 2.1 GW in 2024.
Reducing Embodied Carbon in Our 
Buildings
Building construction is a major driver of carbon emissions 
due to the embodied carbon generated from the 
manufacture, transportation, installation, maintenance, 
and disposal of building materials. We track the embodied 
carbon of our building construction materials through 
collaboration with our building contractors and suppliers.5
We are investing in and scaling lower-carbon building 
materials. In 2025, 40 AWS data centers incorporated 
lower-carbon building materials, such as lower-carbon 
concrete, steel, and aluminum, avoiding nearly 104,000 
metric tons of embodied CO₂e compared to traditional 
construction materials. 
• Lower-carbon steel: We constructed 33 data centers 
with lower-carbon steel in 2025, in addition to 67
since 2023. 
• Lower-carbon concrete: We constructed 39 data 
centers with lower-carbon concrete in 2025, in addition 
to 74 since 2023. 
• Lower-carbon copper: In early 2026, Amazon agreed to 
be the first customer for Rio Tinto's lower-carbon 
copper produced using Nuton bioleaching technology. 
Engaging with Suppliers
AWS engages with our suppliers across the semiconductor 
and electronics manufacturing industries to set emission 
reductions roadmaps and to increase the adoption of 
carbon-free electricity. AWS is also a member of SEMI’s 
Semiconductor Climate Consortium (SCC) and worked to 
increase access to carbon-free power and decarbonization 
standards and tools for the semiconductor industry.
Engaging with Customers
AWS Sustainability Console
 , an AWS service that 
incorporates and replaces the previous Customer Carbon 
Footprint Tool, allows customers to measure, track, and 
reduce their estimated environmental impact across AWS 
services. The methodology behind sustainability 
calculations (e.g., carbon footprint and allocation to 
customers) is third-party verified and publicly available. 
Customers can access granular data by AWS region, 
service, usage account, and fiscal year, among others, 
across Scope 1, 2, and 3 carbon emissions, in convenient 
formats such as dashboard visualizations, comma-
separated values files, and APIs. Learn more about AWS 
Customer Carbon Footprint Methodology 
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
7 | 
At Baldy Mesa Solar and Storage Project, located
in Adelanto, California, machine learning models 
predict when and how the project's battery unit 
should charge and discharge energy back into
the grid.

Water
Water is a shared and increasingly constrained resource, 
especially in high- and extreme-stress regions affected by 
climate change, population growth, and evolving 
technological demands. AWS prioritizes responsible water 
use, using only what we need, managing it efficiently, and 
standing up water replenishment projects that restore 
water to the communities where we operate.
Water Positive Data Centers
In 2022, AWS announced our goal of being water positive
—returning more water to communities than we use—
across global direct data center operations by 2030. By 
the end of 2025, we achieved 75% of this goal, up from 
53% in 2024. We measure progress using our Water 
Positive Methodology .6
To meet our water positive goal, we are working to minimize 
water use, source more sustainable alternatives, and invest in 
water replenishment. We aim to reduce total water 
withdrawals by improving our water efficiency, measured as 
Water Use Effectiveness (WUE), the liters of water withdrawn 
per kilowatt-hour (kWh) of IT load on average.
We prioritize reducing water use in regions with the highest 
water stress, which is defined by World Resources Institute’s 
(WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas as the measurement of 
the ratio of total water demand to available renewable 
surface and groundwater supplies, where higher values 
signal greater competition among users. In 2025, AWS’s 
global leased, owned, and shared data centers withdrew 
9.4 billion liters of water. In 2025, 48% of our total water 
withdrawals for our leased and owned data centers 
occurred in regions classified as low water stress, and 22% 
occurred in regions classified as high or extremely high 
water stress. 
Advancing Water Efficiency
We design AWS data centers to be highly water efficient, 
using about one-seventh of what an average data center 
withdraws. Where weather permits, we use Direct 
Evaporative Cooling, which requires water for less than 
10% of the year. By using cooling water sparingly and 
more efficiently, we reduce our electricity demand year-
round—with the greatest reductions occurring during peak 
summer conditions when grid stress may be the highest. In 
some of our highest water stressed regions, including the 
Middle East, South Africa, and India, we do not use any 
water to cool our data centers.
Modern AI chips generate significantly more heat than 
traditional servers. These chips must be packed closely 
together to exchange data quickly, which concentrates 
heat in ways that outside air alone cannot always address.
We developed the In-Row Heat Exchanger (IRHX), which 
captures heat directly from high-density AI hardware at the 
rack before the heat spreads, reducing how often water-
based cooling needs to run. As we add more AI racks with 
IRHX, we expect a 9% reduction in water use compared to 
evaporative air-cooled data centers once fully operational.
In 2025, we also scaled smart-metering technology across 
our global data center portfolio, enhancing real-time 
consumption monitoring that identifies leaks so they can 
be repaired, preventing further water losses. 
Collectively, these and other efforts reduced our global 
cooling water use by 938 million liters in 2025, enabling 
reduction of our global data center WUE to 0.12 liters per 
kWh, a 20% improvement from 2024 and a 52% 
improvement from 2021.
To further reduce dependence on external water sources, 
we operate on-site cooling water treatment systems to 
recirculate water more often through our cooling systems. 
As of the end of 2025, 31 of our data centers incorporated 
on-site water treatment.
Water Use Effectiveness in AWS
Data Centers
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 % ∆ YoY
Water Use 
Effectiveness 
(L/kWh)
0.25 0.19 0.18 0.15 0.12 -20%
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
8 | 
7
Collective Action for 
Water Resilience
Collective action drives meaningful progress toward 
solving water challenges, reflected by Amazon’s co-
founding of a new initiative, the Water-AI Nexus Center of 
Excellence , where water utility providers, researchers, 
and technology companies develop and share best 
practices to advance water sustainability. The Water-AI 
Nexus has a dual purpose—advancing water sustainability 
in AI development while harnessing AI to solve critical 
water challenges. It seeks to support collaborators in 
developing innovative solutions, enhancing water 
efficiency, adopting more sustainable water sources, 
supporting community reuse projects, and investing in 
replenishment projects.
Learn more about the Principles for Sustainable Water 
Use by Data Centers 
We remove heat from our data centers while 
minimizing water use through innovative design and 
real-time monitoring.

We also collaborate with peers through technology 
transfer and sharing best practices to improve water 
efficiency in shared facilities. For example, we 
collaborated in Singapore to implement a sidestream 
water treatment system that treats cooling tower water 
for reuse, reducing overall fresh water demand. 
Scaling Responsible Water Sources
for Cooling
AWS leads the top 10 data center operators
 in the 
number of locations utilizing reclaimed water , 
wastewater that has been treated to high standards 
for safe reuse in cooling systems. In 2025, 26 AWS data 
centers used reclaimed water for cooling, preserving 
849 million liters of potable water for communities and 
ecosystems.
As of the end of 2025, we have contracted 13 utilities 
to supply reclaimed water for cooling at 130 data centers 
across six countries. Altogether, we expect these 
commitments to preserve 6 billion liters of fresh water 
for community use annually. Across both operating 
and contracted reclaimed water systems, we plan to 
invest $1 billion in public water infrastructure and 
treatment upgrades.
We also capture rainwater on-site to further reduce 
reliance on potable water. As of the end of 2025, AWS had 
installed rainwater collection systems at 14 data centers in 
six countries, with nine new systems added in 2025.
AWS data centers work directly with local water utilities, 
government agencies, and policymakers to establish and 
expand reclaimed water supply programs worldwide. In 
many regions, existing regulations do not explicitly allow 
reclaimed water for data center cooling, requiring us to 
collaborate with stakeholders to establish new use-case 
classifications and precedent-setting supply agreements. 
In Hong Kong, China, we achieved policy breakthroughs 
with the Water Supplies Department, which had 
previously restricted cooling towers to fresh water use 
only, paving the way for broader regional adoption of 
reclaimed water for cooling. In Virginia, U.S., we worked 
with Loudon Water to enable reclaimed water use in 
direct evaporative cooling systems, a first in the state, and 
have since partnered with central Virginia counties to 
develop similar frameworks. In Mississippi, U.S., AWS 
became the first data center operator to commit to 
reclaimed water for cooling, working with Canton 
Municipal Utilities and Madison County Wastewater 
Authority to preserve 314 million liters of potable water 
annually while establishing a scalable model across 
the state.
Water Replenishment
AWS’s investments in water replenishment projects 
increase water access, availability, and quality by restoring 
watersheds and bringing clean water, sanitation, and 
hygiene services to water-stressed communities.
At the end of 2025, Amazon had invested in 45 
replenishment projects globally, which we expect will 
collectively return more than 18 billion liters of water 
annually once completed. In 2025, water replenishment 
projects returned 9.4 billion liters of water to communities.
Learn more about Amazon’s water stewardship efforts
 
and water replenishment portfolio 
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
9 | 
Where weather permits, we use Direct Evaporative Cooling, 
which requires water for less than 10% of the year. In some 
of our highest water stressed regions, including the Middle 
East, South Africa, and India, we do not use any water to 
cool our data centers.

Waste and 
Circularity
AWS data centers face distinct waste and circularity 
challenges, involving specialized hardware with complex 
lifecycles.
We draw on an industry standard waste management 
hierarchy that prioritizes prevention, then reduction, reuse, 
and recycling. To support this hierarchy, we seek to embed 
circular principles into our operations. We work to prevent 
waste from the start—through better product and 
packaging design, inventory management, and material 
sourcing—and reuse, repurpose, or donate items whenever 
possible. When materials cannot be reused, we prioritize 
recycling, followed by energy recovery, with landfill as a last 
resort. We also engage suppliers to reduce waste in our 
products and partner with organizations and local 
municipalities to improve recycling infrastructure and 
advance the transition to a more circular economy.
Maximizing Resource Efficiency in 
Data Centers
We focus on three pillars to embed circularity in our data 
center operations: design better, operate longer, 
and recover more. Through smarter design, extended 
component lifecycles, and responsible end-of-life 
management, AWS data centers reduce waste, avoid carbon 
emissions, and keep valuable materials in circulation.
Cloud circularity begins with design. AWS focuses on 
designing data center equipment that operates longer, 
avoids excess materials, and enables repair and reuse—
minimizing waste from the start. In 2025, we continued 
enabling additional data center hardware components to 
be reused, including central processing units. We are also 
steadily increasing the use of recycled content into 
components, such as piloting air-cooled heat sinks with 
50% recycled aluminum.
When possible, we seek to use equipment for as long as 
it is operationally efficient. We are continually improving 
operational capabilities and extending the life of functional 
equipment. AWS programs have avoided the purchase of 
over one million new hard drives since 2023.
We prioritize improving repair, reuse, and recycling 
practices to recover more value from decommissioned data 
center assets. We leverage Amazon’s re:Cycle Reverse 
Logistics (RRL) to securely assess used data center hardware 
for repair, refurbishment, and reuse, allowing equipment to 
be redeployed into inventory or sold to third parties. Since 
this program was launched in 2020, reverse logistics 
vendors like RRL have enabled Amazon to source retired 
components for reuse in data centers or for resale, which 
prevented 225,000 metric tons of CO2e.8
For components that cannot be reused, we use RRL hubs, 
along with specialized vendors, to increase the amount of 
critical raw materials extracted and recovered. In 2025, RRL 
retained UL Solutions’ highest Zero Waste certification 
(Platinum level) for its Ireland facility and is pursuing 
certifications across additional reverse logistics locations.9
Extending equipment life and accelerating recovery 
through technology remains a top priority. In 2025, RRL 
facilities began using AI-powered robots to demanufacture 
AWS equipment. The machines, developed by robotics 
start-up Molg, securely disassemble servers into 
components to be securely reused or recycled. The 
partnership started in 2024, when Amazon invested in 
Molg’s seed round through The Climate Pledge Fund
 .
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
10 | 
AWS prioritizes keeping functional drives in use 
for as long as possible, avoiding early retirement 
of healthy and working hard drives.

Biodiversity
Biodiversity—the variety of living species on Earth and 
the habitats, ecosystems, and natural processes that 
support them—is essential to planetary health, 
community well-being, and long-term business 
resilience. Yet habitat loss from the expansion of 
agriculture, urban areas, and infrastructure has led to a 
decline in biodiversity around the world. The complexity 
of measuring ecosystem and habitat health, limited 
supply chain traceability across countries and regions, 
and inconsistent biodiversity regulations complicate 
efforts to reduce biodiversity loss. Amazon recognizes 
the urgency of this crisis and the important role 
companies can play to prevent habitat loss or conversion 
and restore biodiversity.
Amazon's approach to biodiversity follows a mitigation 
hierarchy that prioritizes avoidance and reduction of 
high-value habitat loss or conversion, focused on three 
areas: mitigating biodiversity loss in building construction
—seeking to avoid and minimize impacts related to 
siting, constructing, and operating our facilities; reducing 
habitat conversion and restoring biodiversity in our 
supply chain—working with suppliers to restore 
biodiversity; and restoring biodiversity in our 
communities—contributing to nature conservation and 
restoration in sensitive ecosystems, supported by our 
$100 million commitment through the Right Now
 
Climate Fund .
Amazon supports scaling science-based solutions to 
address biodiversity challenges. As one example, we 
commissioned the creation of the European Biodiversity 
Metric (EBM) , an open-source measurement method for 
assessing continental Europe's natural habitats to help 
advance biodiversity protection efforts across Europe and 
demonstrate that rigorous biodiversity assessment can be 
integrated into business foundation at scaling.
Mitigating Biodiversity Loss in 
Building Construction
To help mitigate potential effects on natural habitats 
from Amazon’s built environment in our retail operations 
and data centers, we are continuing to develop metrics, 
guidance, and tools that promote best practices for 
preventing habitat loss and enhancing on-site 
biodiversity.
We have also developed a biodiversity mitigation 
framework, setting out rules and mechanisms for 
avoidance, minimization, and compensation.
In 2025, Amazon evaluated 40 new sites in the UK to 
assess the potential change in biodiversity value of a site 
upon development. Our use of a new tool, BNG.AI™, 
allowed for rapid evaluation of the biodiversity value of 
potential development sites. This third-party solution uses 
satellite imagery, AI, and machine learning to identify and 
assess habitat type and condition, enhancing the speed, 
accuracy, and overall efficiency of biodiversity assessments.
In 2025, Amazon also evaluated biodiversity conditions at 
55 new sites outside the UK, implementing the approach 
developed in the UK.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
11 | 
For projects in the UK, Amazon adopted use of an
AI tool, BNG.AI™, enabling rapid assessment of the
biodiversity value of potential development sites.

Human
Rights
Amazon’s value chain affects millions of people globally, 
including those beyond our direct operations. With this 
scale, we have an important role to play in supporting 
human rights and the fundamental dignity of the people 
throughout our value chain, including our employees, 
suppliers and their workers, customers, and communities 
connected to our business.
We work to create an environment where our employees 
and individuals within our value chain are treated with 
respect, understand their rights, and feel empowered to 
speak up. To drive continued improvement, Amazon 
regularly evaluates and updates our policies, programs, 
and frameworks that identify, assess, and address salient 
human rights risks.
Amazon respects internationally recognized human rights 
as defined by international standards and frameworks 
developed by the United Nations (UN) and the 
International Labour Organization (ILO), including the UN 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights , the Core 
Conventions of the ILO , and the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work .
Developing and Maintaining Strong 
Policies and Standards
Amazon’s Global Human Rights Principles reflect our 
commitment to respecting human rights across all 
business activities. In January 2025, Amazon updated 
these principles to align with evolving priorities, 
international standards, and industry best practices. In 
addition, Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards
 set clear 
expectations for supplier conduct, including AWS 
suppliers. Amazon’s Modern Slavery Statement
 
details our progress and ongoing efforts to combat 
modern slavery. 
Identifying, Assessing, Prioritizing, 
and Addressing Risk
To empower individual businesses to own their human 
rights due diligence, Amazon has established an enterprise-
wide methodology and created tools for each business to 
identify and prioritize business-specific salient risks. 
In 2020, Amazon conducted an enterprise-wide human 
rights saliency assessment to identify salient human rights 
risks under international standards.10 Since then, Amazon 
has conducted a growing number of business-specific due 
diligence assessments. We deployed Amazon’s in-house risk 
identification methodology to AWS in 2024. In 2025, we 
completed a refreshed AWS assessment, expanding our 
analysis upstream to better understand and act on risks 
associated with raw materials in our supply chain.
Engaging with Stakeholders
We collaborate with stakeholders and industry partners to 
accelerate both local and global efforts. In 2025, AWS 
served in a leadership role on the Steering Committee of 
Tech Against Trafficking, a coalition of technology 
companies collaborating with global experts to help 
eradicate human trafficking using technology, leading 
efforts to develop a comprehensive forced labor data 
standard, supporting the creation of actionable gap 
analyses, and championing public-private partnerships 
that improve the global response to human trafficking.
Improving Access to Effective 
Grievance Mechanisms and 
Remediation
Amazon provides multiple channels for employees to 
share feedback and voice any concerns. These employee 
engagement and communications channels include 
MyVoice, Connections, and the Amazon Ethics line. 
All employees, contractors, suppliers, customers, and 
community members can share feedback and concerns 
through our Human Rights and Environmental 
Complaints Form , available in 19 languages globally. In 
2025, Amazon redesigned the form to include both 
anonymous and signed-in reporting options, improving 
transparency and usability.
Advancing New Technology
Innovation strengthens our ability to address human 
rights risks at scale. With a global network of thousands of 
suppliers, we are developing AI tools to enhance 
accountability in upholding our standards. In 2025, 
Amazon explored AI tools to enable more effective risk 
assessment, audit processing, and decision-making 
processes across our complex supplier network. As we 
continue developing and testing this technology, we 
maintain human oversight and expertise.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
12 | 
Amazon partners with TAT (formerly Truckers Against 
Trafficking) to offer employees specialized 
training on recognizing and safely reporting 
potential human trafficking situations.

Employee 
Experience
Amazon strives to be Earth’s best employer by supporting 
the health, wellness, and growth of more than 1.5 million 
full- and part-time employees worldwide. Amazon offers 
competitive wages, comprehensive benefits, and 
upskilling programs that support career growth and 
prepare employees for future opportunities to meet our 
vision of helping all employees grow, thrive, and connect.
To improve access to benefits and compensation 
information, we enhanced the A to Z employee app and 
website—available in 66 countries—with an AI assistant, 
Aza, that offers easily accessible and personalized 
information about benefits, health care, and paid time off. 
In 2025, 95% of employees accessed the mobile app or 
website monthly.
Upskilling Our Employees
We are building a strong pipeline of talent to fill current 
and future in-demand jobs at Amazon by continuously 
working to enhance our AWS upskilling programs.
AWS Grow Our Own Talent
 helps individuals with 
nontraditional experience and backgrounds develop skills 
needed for AWS data center roles through on-the-job 
training and placement opportunities.
The AWS Intelligence Initiative
 is a 12- to 14-month 
rotational onboarding and technical upskilling 
program for engineers supporting Amazon Dedicated 
Cloud regions.
AWS Skill Builder
 helps turn AWS skills into career 
growth. Through in-demand cloud and AI skills practical 
training and validation, employees can prove what they’ve 
learned through industry recognized credentials. 
Learn more about our educational programs
 
Together at Amazon: Building 
Community and Connection
We are dedicated to building the best products and 
services for the most globally diverse employees, 
customers, and communities in the world. Amazon’s 
strategy is to move beyond traditional supplemental 
programs and create scalable systems that work for 
everyone, by design, serving our workforce of more than 
1.5 million full- and part-time employees worldwide as 
well as the customers, partners, and communities we 
reach. Building systems that address unmet customer 
needs and work for people around the world is a shared 
responsibility across Amazon. 
Responsible 
Supply Chain
We are committed to providing products and services 
that are produced or supplied in a way that respects 
human rights and the environment, and protects the 
fundamental dignity of workers. Amazon identifies and 
addresses supply chain risks by maintaining a robust 
management system that includes a supplier audit 
program, business-unit-specific human rights and 
environmental due diligence, support for effective 
grievance mechanisms, and remediation support. 
Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards
 underpin this 
approach, which also includes identifying country- and 
supplier-specific risks and implementing site-level 
requirements to build suppliers’ capacity to meet our 
standards. These standards are available in 23 languages 
and detail expectations for all suppliers of goods and 
services for Amazon, including AWS service providers, 
vendors, contractors, and subcontractors. Products and 
services delivered to Amazon must be manufactured, 
produced, or provided in accordance with these standards. 
We require our suppliers to hold their own suppliers, 
subcontractors, recruitment agents, and labor agents to 
applicable laws and these standards.
To enhance the ability of our experts to identify issues and 
categorize audit results more quickly and accurately, we 
have been using AI audit processing tools
 . An early 
version of one of these tools processed audit reports 79% 
faster than manual review processes.
Supplier Transparency and Risk 
Assessment
Throughout our complex global supply chain, we continue 
to increase supplier transparency through supply chain 
mapping and industry collaboration.
In 2025, we analyzed materials flow across AWS’s 
upstream supply chain to track materials from raw 
material extraction through end of life. By combining this 
material flow data with human rights risk assessments, we 
can identify where the most severe risks may exist in our 
supply chain and focus our due diligence efforts on the 
areas that matter most, including our approach to 
avoiding conflict minerals.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
13 | 
AWS provides free and low-cost cloud computing and 
AI skills training for people of all backgrounds 
and skill levels.

Communities
AWS aims to create positive outcomes in our communities 
using our global scale and operational strengths. We focus 
on two things: improving customers’ lives and 
contributing to the fabric of communities. 
Education and Skills-Building
We support learners of all ages to develop skills needed 
for future jobs. The AWS Education Equity Initiative
 , a 
$100 million, five-year investment in cloud and AI 
technology, expands access to education and technical 
skills globally. In 2025, we launched Future Ready—a 
$2.5 billion initiative to equip 50 million people with the 
skills they need for the future of work by 2030. This new 
upskilling initiative benefits Amazon employees, students, 
and many others because we believe that in a rapidly 
changing economy, people deserve the tools to adapt, 
build a career, and thrive.
In 2025, we:
• Connected 144,500 learners to employers through the 
AWS Skills to Jobs Tech Alliance
 
• Reached 5.8 million students through the childhood-
to-career computer science program, Amazon Future 
Engineer 
• Launched 26 community funds and allocated more than 
$21.1 million in hyper-local funding globally
• Trained 14,400 unemployed or underemployed 
individuals through AWS re/Start 12-week 
training sessions
• Distributed $17.9 million in AWS cloud and AI 
technology for education
To expand cloud and AI technology, the AWS Machine 
Learning University educator enablement program 
provides faculty at community colleges, minority-serving 
institutions, and historically Black colleges and universities 
with the skills and resources to teach data analytics, AI, 
and machine learning concepts, building a diverse pipeline 
for in-demand jobs of today and tomorrow. Through the 
AWS AI and ML Scholars program
 , we have provided 
access to foundational skills in AI to 50,000 learners 
globally. As part of the White House’s Pledge to America’s 
Youth , Amazon will support AI skills training for 324,000 
learners and enable AI curricula for 2,000 U.S. educators 
by 2028. Additionally, AWS Academy
 provides higher 
education institutions with a free, ready-to-teach AI and 
cloud computing curriculum that prepares students to 
pursue industry-recognized certifications and in-demand 
technology jobs.
Learn more about our s
kills training programs and 
STEM Education programs 
Disaster Relief 
We provide technology solutions to partners responding 
to emergencies, including kits to restore online access, 
portable mapping devices for search and rescue, and 
technology that prevents drones from interfering with 
firefighting aircraft. Amid three natural disasters in 2025, 
we deployed AWS cloud technology to help local 
governments and organizations stay connected and 
provided over $1.2 million in AWS cloud and AI 
technology for disaster resilience efforts, including 
supporting Watch Duty, which runs its wildfire tracking 
service on AWS.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
14 | 
AWS aims to create positive outcomes in our communities 
using our global scale and operational strengths.

Endnotes
1. On-premises refers to organizations running hardware and software within 
their own physical space.
2. PUE measures the energy consumed by a data center to power computing 
equipment, cooling, and other data center infrastructure to support 
operations. A lower PUE value indicates greater efficiency. The theoretical 
minimum PUE of 1.0 would imply that all the energy consumed by a data 
center is being used to power computing equipment and that none is wasted 
on cooling or other infrastructure. Industry averages are as estimated by the 
International Data Corporation, 2H24 Datacenter Trends: Sustainable 
Datacenter Builds and CO2 Emissions Doc # US51911924, January 2025. 
AWS efficiency data are as estimated in research .
3. Carbon-free energy includes electricity generated from sources that 
produce no direct carbon emissions—such as wind, solar, nuclear, 
hydroelectric, and geothermal—as well as site energy contracts and green 
tariffs with local utilities that add new renewable projects to the grid.
4. As detailed in our Renewable Energy Methodology
 , we calculate the 
percentage of our electricity consumption that is matched with renewable 
energy by adding the amount of energy generated from renewable energy 
projects enabled by Amazon plus renewable energy in the grids where 
Amazon operates then dividing by Amazon's global electricity use.
5. The embodied carbon calculation uses the Carbon Leadership Forum’s (CLF) 
2021 baseline. CLF baselines represent an estimate of industry-average GHG 
emissions for construction materials manufactured in North America.
6. We measure progress against this goal by adding together reused water 
and water from replenishment and dividing that number by total water 
withdrawal minus water from sustainable sources, multiplied by 100%, as 
described in our Water Positive Methodology
 .
7. The water stress levels in this chart use WRI's 2030 business-as-usual 
baseline scenario, consider source water stress, and cover only leased and 
owned data centers.
8. Carbon emissions abated from reuse and resale of data center hardware.
9. UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill methodology defines Silver-level sites as those 
diverting 90%–94%; Gold-level sites as those diverting 95%–99%; 
and Platinum-level sites as those diverting 100% of waste, according to the 
UL 2799 standard.
10. The concept of salience uses the lens of risk to people, not to the 
business, as the starting point, while recognizing that where risks to people’s 
human rights are greatest, there is often strong convergence with risks to 
the business.
About AWS 2025 Year in Review AI for Sustainability Climate and Energy Water Waste and Circularity Biodiversity Human Rights Employee Experience Responsible Supply Chain Communities Endnotes
15 | 
On the cover
Image 1: AWS invests relentlessly in the efficiency of our data 
centers. We design AWS data centers to be highly water efficient, 
using about one-seventh of what an average data center 
withdraws. 
Image 2: AWS is taking a direct-to-chip approach, which puts a 
“cold plate” directly on top of the chip. The liquid runs in tubes 
through that sealed plate, absorbing the heat and carrying it out
of the server rack.
Image 3: Our custom-designed chips—including Trainium3 for AI 
model training—offer better performance per MW than its 
predecessor, while maintaining the same latency or response time
per user.

Published July 2026 | sustainability.aboutamazon.com