Environmental 
Report
2026

Contents
Introduction 4 Executive summary
8 Highlights
9 Global challenges and dependencies
10 Our climate and energy moonshots
Impact stories 12 Energy
13 Energy for our data centers
29 Energy for our supply chain
34 Resources
35 Water stewardship
40 Waste reduction
43 Nature on our campuses
45 Consumer hardware devices
49 AI solutions
50 Mitigating high-impact sectors
59 Extreme weather and crisis resilience
65 Protecting the planet
Detailed disclosures 69 Progress updates
69 Carbon footprint
70 Avoided emissions
72 Ambitions
82 Environmental data
98 Engagement
108 Governance
Appendix 110 Company and report details
111 Certifications and recognitions
112 Endnotes
2

Introduction
3

Executive summary
A year of impact at scale
At Google, we’re deeply committed to responsibly managing 
the environmental footprint of our operations and unlocking 
the power of AI for the planet. While the path to achieving our 
climate ambitions will not be linear—given our AI infrastructure 
buildout is currently accelerating faster than the grid is 
decarbonizing—we remain focused on scaling abundant 
and affordable clean power globally and progressing 
technological innovations that drive down emissions across 
our operations and the broader industry.
The AI revolution has made the last five years especially 
transformative, and we’re proud of the progress we’ve 
achieved. In 2025 alone, we signed agreements for over 12 GW 
of net-new clean energy.
1 By combining this record-breaking 
procurement with our industry-leading infrastructure , we’re 
working to ensure that every megawatt is used as efficiently 
as possible. We’re investing in reliable, clean capacity on the 
local grids that support our data centers, and we’re advancing 
the next generation of clean energy sources like nuclear 
and enhanced geothermal while making long-term bets on 
breakthrough technologies like fusion. This progress is a 
testament to the power of tenacity and creativity.
It was with this same bold spirit that, at the beginning of the 
decade, we set net zero and 24/7 carbon-free energy
2 (CFE) 
moonshots that were intentionally aspirational and designed 
to push the frontiers of what’s possible in energy systems 
and data center operations. From the start, we were clear 
that these moonshots would require significant innovation 
in technology and policy. Over the past few years, the rapid 
rise of AI has reshaped global infrastructure and placed new 
demands on the grid. Our moonshots pushed us to meet this 
moment, and the scale of our impact has similarly undergone 
a step-change. In 2025, we contracted for eight times more 
clean energy than we did in 2019 . Furthermore, the emissions 
we successfully avoided in 2025 represent seven times the 
size of our 2019 ambition-based carbon footprint , our 
moonshot baseline. 3 While our growth has widened the gap 
between our continued progress and our ambitions, our 
moonshots have energized our work, moving both Google and 
global markets toward a cleaner, more reliable future than we 
once thought possible.
This isn’t just about operating Google more sustainably—it’s 
also about using our technology to build a better future for 
everyone. Our data centers are powering AI products used by 
billions of people around the world to drive progress across 
science, health, the economy, and more. We also see a huge 
opportunity for AI to help drive progress on environmental 
issues specifically. For example, we’re enabling others to 
mitigate emissions through efficiencies in high-impact 
sectors; in 2025, nine of our solutions enabled individuals, 
cities, and partners to collectively reduce an estimated 
41 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(tCO
2e)4—for context, that’s roughly three times Google’s 
own emissions.5 And we’re also supporting communities in 
staying safe during extreme events and natural disasters, and 
protecting ecosystems and biodiversity. As we scale new AI 
solutions to meet global challenges, our task is to maximize 
the immense good AI can do for the planet while minimizing its 
resource intensity.
This eleventh annual Environmental Report provides a holistic 
view of our 2025 performance: one that navigates the tension 
between hyper-growth and environmental stewardship, and 
proves our enduring commitment to a more sustainable future.
Energy and other resources
Clean energy is our first choice because it makes good 
business sense, and it remains our most critical operational 
lever for managing the environmental footprint of the AI era. 
In 2025, we navigated our largest load growth in history—a 
37% annual increase in electricity demand. Despite this, we 
again matched 100% of our electricity consumption with 
renewable energy purchases (on a global and annual basis) 
4

for the ninth consecutive year.6 Even with our growing energy needs, we’ve 
successfully reduced our operational emissions by 2% year-over-year . 
While this is a significant milestone, maintaining this decoupling of electricity-
related emissions from our rapid growth will require even more clean energy 
investments and closer partnerships with local stakeholders in the years ahead.
To continue navigating the AI era while maintaining our commitment to 
sustainability, we’re working across three levels: AI stack efficiencies, clean 
energy procurement, and energy innovation.
AI stack efficiencies
We’re investing heavily in efficiency across our AI stack—from infrastructure and 
chip design to model deployment. At the data center level, we’ve been leaders 
in developing extremely energy efficient facilities. Google’s data centers are 
among the industry’s most efficient, operating with a 2025 fleet-wide average 
power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.09 and using 83% less overhead energy 
than the industry average.
7
We’ve been designing our Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) for over a decade to 
maximize performance while minimizing energy and emissions. In early 2025, 
we launched Ironwood, our seventh-generation TPU—which is nearly 30 times 
more power efficient than our first Cloud TPU from 2018,
8 and which delivers 
double the performance-per-watt than our sixth-generation TPU Trillium from 
2024. And our recently announced eighth-generation TPUs deliver up to two 
times better performance-per-watt over Ironwood.9
We also co-design our AI models and TPUs, ensuring our software takes full 
advantage of our hardware—and that our hardware will be able to efficiently 
run our future AI software. Through our AI stack innovations (including model 
optimizations, software efficiencies, infrastructure and chip designs, clean 
energy procurement, and more), the energy and total carbon footprint of the 
median Gemini Apps text prompt dropped by factors of 33 and 44, respectively, 
over a 12-month period
10—all while delivering higher-quality responses.
We’ve also developed capabilities that allow us to dynamically manage 
workloads based on the carbon intensity or needs of the grid, like our demand 
response capability to limit or shift a portion of machine learning workloads 
running in our data centers. As of early 2026, we’ve integrated over a gigawatt 
of demand response capacity into our long-term energy contracts with multiple 
utilities across the United States.
Energy procurement
As an early pioneer of corporate Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) and, 
more recently, approaches like the Capacity Commitment Framework and 
Server racks in our data center in 
Mayes County, Oklahoma.
5

the Clean Transition Tariff, we continue to invest in innovative 
procurement models that accelerate this transition for both 
Google and the world. In 2025 alone, our agreements to 
purchase more than 12 GW of net-new clean energy were 
the largest annual total in our history and more than our total 
procurement from the previous two years combined.
11
We’re committed to being a good neighbor, which begins with 
ensuring our expansion doesn’t burden local communities or 
other utility customers. We intentionally structure our energy 
deals to cover 100% of the costs of the power we use. Our 
responsible growth strategy also focuses on expanding access 
to affordable, reliable, and clean energy for everyone 
in the communities where we operate. Through efforts 
like establishing a $30 million Energy Impact Fund in Texas, 
supporting home weatherization in Nebraska, and more , we’re 
funding meaningful local energy efficiency and weatherization 
programs across the country to help stabilize energy costs and 
support local grids.
Rødby solar farm in Denmark 
(55 MW for Google).
Energy innovation
We can’t decarbonize at the scale and speed needed if the grid 
is stuck in the past, so we’ve moved beyond just buying power 
to helping spur new clean energy sources and modernizing 
the infrastructure that delivers it. By investing in the next 
generation of clean energy and grid technologies, we’re 
helping improve grid resilience and supporting long-term 
economic growth for everyone.
In 2025 and early 2026, this included announcing a 
collaboration with NextEra Energy to restart Iowa’s Duane 
Arnold Energy Center, which will provide 600 MW of 
“always-on” nuclear power once it’s operational (likely in 
early 2029), securing regulatory approval for 115 MW of 
enhanced geothermal energy in Nevada, and funding the 
largest battery capacity to date to support grid reliability in 
Minnesota. We also established a first-of-its-kind hydropower 
framework agreement to deliver up to 3,000 MW across the 
PJM and MISO grid regions.
12 And we’re making long-term bets 
on the frontier of energy, including signing the largest direct 
corporate purchase agreement for fusion energy.
Beyond advancing technology, we’re actively advocating for 
permitting reform and developing AI solutions to streamline 
interconnection queues, helping clear the path for new clean 
energy to reach the grid faster. By using our scale to reduce 
the risk of emerging solutions, we’re turning Google’s growth 
into an engine for global energy innovation.
Other resources
Our pursuit of efficiency extends beyond energy to the rest of 
our operations and value chain. In 2025, our water stewardship 
projects replenished approximately 7.7 billion gallons of 
water
13—roughly 78% of our 2025 freshwater 14 consumption, 
marking progress toward our 120% replenishment ambition. 
We’re scaling ways to keep resources in use across our data 
centers, where we diverted 88% of operational waste from 
landfills
15 and harvested more than 7.5 million components 
for internal reuse. And these efforts extend to our consumer 
hardware; the enclosure of all Pixel phones from Pixel 6 through 
Pixel 10 has been made with 100% recycled aluminum, 16 and the 
Pixel 10 series is made with the most recycled content of any 
Pixel phone generation yet.
17
6

AI solutions
While there’s focus on AI’s environmental costs, it’s also 
proving to be an incredibly powerful tool for enabling 
mitigation, adaptation, and ecosystem protection in ways 
previously impossible to imagine.
Climate mitigation
We’ve begun to estimate how much our AI efforts are helping 
others to reduce their emissions. So far, the work looks 
very promising. 
Nine of our solutions (including fuel-efficient routing in 
Google Maps and Nest thermostats) helped others reduce 
an estimated 41 million tCO
2e in 202518—equivalent to the 
emissions from the annual electricity use of over 8.5 million U.S. 
homes19 and, for context, roughly three times Google’s own 
emissions in 2025. 20
Adaptation and crisis resilience
Beyond optimization, AI is a powerful tool in enabling global 
resilience to natural disasters and extreme weather. For 
example, we’re using AI to expand flood forecasting to more 
than two billion people in around 150 countries for the most 
significant and impactful riverine flood events 21 and partnering 
to develop FireSat, a satellite constellation designed to detect 
wildfires in near-real time.
Ecosystem protection
We’re also deploying the tools needed to accelerate global 
conservation, from decoding bioacoustics with our Perch 
model to open-sourcing SpeciesNet to help hundreds of global 
organizations identify species.
This year we developed two new product strategies to guide 
our work: first, to enable a world where no one is surprised by a 
natural disaster; and second, to help nature and people flourish 
together with AI-powered tools to empower governments, 
businesses, and communities to conserve 30% of the world’s 
land and oceans by 2030.
Our commitment to sustainability
While we remain deeply committed to sustainability, reaching 
our climate moonshot is getting harder. Growing our data 
center footprint to build out the infrastructure needed to 
make AI as helpful as possible to everyone requires energy 
and resources. Like everyone in our industry, we experienced a 
surge in electricity demand last year. Our load grew 37% year-
over-year—a rate tempered by our AI-stack efficiencies. Long 
waits to connect to the grid, fragmented markets, supply chain 
delays, and regulatory bottlenecks continue to slow down new 
carbon-free energy from coming online. We’re working within 
energy systems that simply aren’t clean enough or flexible 
enough yet.
Consequently, while we managed to reduce our operational 
emissions by 2% year-over-year, our supply chain emissions 
grew by 25%. This increase reflects not only the scale of new AI 
infrastructure, but also an Asia-Pacific supply chain operating 
on grids that remain undersupplied with carbon-free energy—
due to land constraints, high construction costs, and policy and 
regulatory hurdles. We’ll continue to work across the industry 
to further reduce incremental electricity demand and the full 
lifecycle emissions associated with the infrastructure we build 
and operate.
Notwithstanding these challenges, our two decades of 
sustainability work have yielded meaningful progress. In 2025 
alone, initiatives like machine hardware efficiencies, software 
and compute efficiencies, and clean energy procurement 
collectively avoided over 58 million tCO
2e.22 In fact, without 
these decarbonization interventions, we estimate that our 
ambition-based carbon footprint in 2025 would have been 
five times larger. 
While these efforts are avoiding significant emissions, we 
continue to evolve our approach in tandem with the technology 
we build—regularly assessing our strategy as we move forward 
with steady execution, balancing bold ambition with real-
world impact . We remain committed to prioritizing AI-stack 
efficiencies, clean energy, and innovation to ensure our efforts 
leverage the transformative potential of AI to enhance lives 
globally—staying true to Google’s founding mission.
7

Highlights
As evidence of our enduring commitment to sustainability, this section provides a snapshot of highlights across our operations, 
products, and partnerships from 2025 and the first half of 2026.
Operations
Procured 12 GW of net-new 
clean energy
We signed agreements to purchase over 12 
GW of net-new clean energy. 23 Google is one 
of the largest corporate purchasers of clean 
energy in the world.
Learn more on page 18.
Avoided 58 million tCO2e across 
our operations and supply chain
Our carbon reduction initiatives collectively 
avoided over 58 million tCO
2e.24 Without these 
interventions, our ambition-based carbon 
footprint in 2025 would have been five times larger.
Learn more on page 70.
Reduced median Gemini text prompt 
energy and carbon footprint by 33x and 44x
The energy and total carbon footprint of the median 
Gemini Apps text prompt dropped by factors of 
33 and 44, respectively, over a 12-month period.25
Learn more on page 17.
Achieved a 3.7x carbon efficiency 
gain with Ironwood TPU
Ironwood, our seventh-generation TPU, 
demonstrated an approximately 3.7x 
improvement in Compute Carbon Intensity 26 
compared to TPU v5p. 27
Learn more on page 15.
Replenished 78% of our 
freshwater consumption
Our water stewardship portfolio of 165 projects 28 
spanning 97 watersheds replenished 7.7 billion 
gallons of water, or roughly 78% of our 2025 
freshwater consumption.
29
Learn more on page 37.
AI solutions
Enabled 41 million tCO2e of emissions 
reductions through our products
Nine of our solutions helped individuals, cities, 
and partners collectively reduce an estimated 
41 million tCO
2e.30 For context, that’s roughly 
three times Google’s own emissions. 31 
Learn more on page 50.
Achieved 7x greater environmental 
benefit than contrails model’s footprint
Our contrails model generated 380 tCO 2e of 
compute emissions 32 while enabling 3,000 tCO 2e 
in contrail avoidance 33—over 7 times its own 
carbon footprint.
Learn more on page 58.
Expanded riverine flood forecasting 
to cover two billion people
Our flood forecasting information covers more 
than two billion people in around 150 countries 
for the most significant and impactful riverine 
flood events.
34 
Learn more on page 60.
8
Enabled AI-powered monsoon 
forecasts for 38 million farmers
NeuralGCM, a Google Research model, was used to 
more accurately predict the monsoon season in India. 
As a result, the Government of India sent AI-powered 
forecasts predicting its start to 38 million farmers.
Learn more on page 64.
Open-sourced SpeciesNet 
for improved wildlife tracking
We open-sourced SpeciesNet , an Earth AI model 
capable of recognizing more than 2,000 animal 
species in images from motion-triggered wildlife 
cameras with over 94% identification accuracy.
Learn more on page 66.

Global challenges and dependencies
While our highlights show our efforts to date, minimizing AI’s 
footprint and maximizing its positive environmental impact isn’t 
a guaranteed outcome. Collective progress requires navigating 
a complex web of interconnected challenges shaped by many 
external factors—like grid resilience, CFE adoption, policy and 
standards reform.
Scaling AI infrastructure
Data centers are the nerve centers of the digital world, 
powering the tools people rely on every day. But as their 
footprint grows to support these services, it’s become clear 
that how they’re built is just as important as what they’re 
built for. The environmental footprint of the data centers that 
power AI is growing, creating a dual challenge: managing 
that environmental footprint while simultaneously building 
infrastructure to meet growing demand and realize Al’s 
full potential.
Accelerating clean energy adoption
Companies still face market barriers when sourcing CFE 
for their own global operations and encouraging adoption 
within their supply chains. Interconnection delays, market 
fragmentation, and regulatory bottlenecks continue to limit 
how fast clean energy can come online. Some of these hurdles 
are particularly pronounced in certain regions in Asia Pacific 
and parts of the United States. Progress will increasingly 
depend on a global energy transition that prioritizes grid 
resilience and the rapid scaling of energy innovations. Next-
generation technologies like advanced geothermal and 
small modular reactors (SMRs) hold promise for providing 
dispatchable, around-the-clock, carbon-free power; 
however, they’re not yet commercially available at scale. Their 
widespread adoption will require further cost declines and 
supply chain maturation into the 2030s. Accelerating these 
innovations is critical to ensuring the energy system can 
deploy clean solutions fast enough to keep pace with AI’s 
evolving needs.
Navigating evolving standards
Evolving reporting frameworks complicate the reporting 
landscape, making it more challenging for organizations to 
continuously align their established strategies with changing 
disclosure requirements. Improving and aligning standards 
would provide the consistency organizations need to take 
ambitious, long-term action. Ultimately, this predictability is 
what drives investments in clean energy and supply chain 
emission reductions.
Addressing policy and regulatory uncertainty
Fluctuating climate and energy policies and regulations 
introduce uncertainty and volatility into corporate energy 
planning and emissions forecasting. This changing macro 
environment directly impacts the feasibility, cost, and timelines 
for new clean energy projects. Consistent and durable 
policy frameworks will enable the investments in energy 
infrastructure required to meet growing demand.
Bridging the supply chain transformation gap
Decarbonizing a global supply chain requires building 
relationships and coordinating action with a vast network of 
independent organizations, each navigating its own unique 
contexts, regulatory environments, infrastructure limitations, 
and financial constraints. Meaningful progress requires 
collective action—from facility upgrades to new procurement 
agreements—to move beyond today’s constraints toward a 
more resilient and sustainable global supply chain.
Dawn lights up the sky over one of our data 
centers in the Lowcountry, South Carolina.
9

Our climate and energy moonshots
When we set our environmental ambitions —including 
running on 24/7 carbon-free energy and achieving net-zero 
emissions—we knew they were moonshots. We intentionally 
picked ambitions that we didn’t yet have the technology or the 
systems to reach.
As we’ve mentioned in previous reports, the path to these 
ambitions continues to be complex and non-linear. While our 
long-term commitment to reducing our environmental impact 
remains the same, our progress is being shaped by rapid shifts 
in technology and the slow evolution of global power grids. 
To maintain the trust of our stakeholders, we believe it’s our 
responsibility to report on this journey with clarity—being open 
about our wins, but also being honest about the challenges 
we’re facing.
The biggest change to our environmental impact is the 
expansion of our technical infrastructure—and the energy 
needed to operate it. Since 2019, our total electricity demand 
has increased by over 250% to support our products and 
digital services. This includes the accelerating growth of 
Google Cloud, continued investments in Search, the expanding 
reach of YouTube, as well as AI capabilities that are unlocking 
meaningful societal and economic benefits . We recognize that 
AI also represents a powerful tool for global climate action—
from predicting extreme weather to optimizing global traffic 
patterns—but we’re equally clear-eyed about its immediate 
environmental costs. This rapid expansion in energy demand 
is a reality we must manage actively, and we’re committed to 
ensuring that the growth of AI doesn’t become a rationale for 
lowering our environmental standards.
Despite this intense load growth, we’re demonstrating that 
near-term mitigation is possible. Through disciplined execution, 
we, once again, effectively decoupled our total electricity 
demand from our scope 2 (market-based) emissions in 2025. 
By diligently pursuing clean energy agreements and applying 
limited Granular Certificates purchased from the marketplace, 
we’ve reduced our scope 2 (market-based) emissions by 3% 
year-over-year, even as our energy consumption continues 
to climb. More broadly, since 2019, we’ve reduced our own 
emissions per gigawatt-hour (GWh) by 47%.35 This meaningful 
reduction across our value chain demonstrates that we’re 
driving more value out of every watt we consume without 
a proportional increase in emissions, helping minimize the 
carbon footprint of our operations. While the macro path 
toward net-zero is becoming steeper, we’re moving the needle 
on daily operational decarbonization.
To complement these operational mitigations, we’re advancing 
policy advocacy and cross-industry coalitions. We’re 
championing state and federal policies in the United States, 
Europe, and Asia-Pacific to accelerate grid modernization, 
permitting reform, market design improvements, and 
infrastructure deployment. Additionally, we’re partnering with 
international organizations and nonprofits to drive shared 
sustainability initiatives around the world.
We’ve made a lot of progress, and we’re proud of what 
we’ve achieved, but the path to success relies on addressing 
entrenched, systemic limitations within global energy systems. 
The transition to a decarbonized economy is currently 
constrained by interconnection delays, fragmented power 
grids, and a lack of mature, clean firm generation. We aren’t 
letting these market hurdles slow us down: we’re viewing them 
as a challenge to innovate. We’re working to clear the path 
for a cleaner grid for everyone and signaling our capability to 
drive long-term change. By securing the world’s first corporate 
agreements for nuclear energy from small modular reactors 
and advancing next-generation geothermal and carbon 
capture technologies , we’re building the resilient infrastructure 
necessary for the clean energy landscape well beyond our 
2030 ambitions.
As AI transforms our business, we must continuously review 
our ambitions to ensure we remain focused on our most critical 
environmental impacts in a rapidly evolving world—one that 
looks very different than it did at the start of the decade.
10

Impact 
stories
11

Energy
13 Energy for our data centers
29 Energy for our supply chain
12
Powering our global infrastructure requires significant 
energy, and we’re leveraging our demand to scale the global 
supply of carbon-free, resilient, and affordable power. By 
innovating across our products and platforms, we can deliver 
broad societal benefits while helping to modernize grids.
Our strategy also extends to our supply chain, where we’re partnering with 
suppliers to transition their operations to cleaner sources and pioneering direct 
procurement approaches for high-quality energy certificates that catalyze 
systemic change.
However, as the rapid evolution of AI is increasing our energy needs, the shift 
to clean energy is hitting major bottlenecks—like long delays in connecting new 
energy projects to the grid, fragmented power grids, and a shortage of reliable, 
around-the-clock clean power.
And in key regions like Asia Pacific, land constraints, high construction costs, 
and other unique challenges mean electricity grids remain undersupplied with 
carbon-free energy.
While these hurdles make the path ahead difficult, they also reinforce our 
commitment to helping spur new clean energy sources and grid technologies 
for everyone.

Energy for our data centers
14 The AI stack: Our approach to innovation and efficiency
17 Building the supply: Scaling clean energy to meet the moment
19 Beyond the horizon: Accelerating the next generation of clean energy
22 Same time, same place: Using Granular Certificates to meet rising AI demand
24 Being a good neighbor: Google’s approach to enabling more affordable power
27 From annually to hourly: Focusing on 24/7 carbon-free energy—every hour, on every grid
Innovating across our AI stack is the foundation of our strategy 
to minimize our systems’ energy profile. This includes both 
increasing the energy efficiency of our data centers with 
custom-built hardware and more efficient model architecture 
and supporting grid reliability by using demand response 
and flexibility, when possible, to help grids meet their highest 
need events.
Rising demand from AI is putting new pressure on global power 
grids. As a large electricity consumer, the challenges we face 
are incredibly complex and beyond our ability to solve alone, but 
we aren’t letting that prevent us from making progress. We’re 
using our growth to scale clean energy innovation and deploying 
proven technologies like solar, wind, and hydropower.
We aren’t just scaling what works now; we’re also betting 
on what comes next. We’re investing in next-generation 
innovations that can provide steady, “always-on” power, and 
making long-term bets on emerging technologies like fusion. 
By supporting these technologies today, we’re helping build a 
more resilient grid for everyone.
Our growth isn’t responsible if it means burdening our 
neighbors, so our approach is built on the principle of paying 
our own way and supporting the communities where we build 
data centers. We’re focused on protecting energy affordability 
for households, speeding new energy breakthroughs, and 
accelerating the construction of energy infrastructure to 
create a more reliable, robust, and carbon-free energy system.
The sun shines over the Google solar field 
at our data center in St. Ghislain, Belgium.
13

The AI-stack: Our approach to 
innovation and efficiency
By optimizing every layer of the AI stack—from infrastructure 
and chip design to world-class research and product 
deployment—we take a comprehensive approach to AI 
innovation (Figure 1). This integrated strategy drives efficiencies 
across the entire system, helping maximize the value of 
every watt.
And as we continue to scale, we’re getting dramatically more 
efficient: We were able to lower Gemini serving unit costs by 
78% over 2025 through model optimizations, efficiency, and 
utilization improvements.
36
This approach to our AI stack is a key differentiator, allowing 
us to deploy cutting-edge technology with greater speed and 
agility while minimizing our environmental footprint.
Figure 1. 
Google’s AI stack 
Services
Models
AI 
infrastructure software
AI 
infrastructure hardware
Data center land 
and enclosures
Energy
1.09 fleet-wide average PUE
83% less
overhead energy than the 
industry average
37
3.7x
improvement
in Compute Carbon Intensity 
from TPU v5p to Ironwood
38
44x 
year-on-year 
improvement
in total carbon footprint 
of median Gemini Apps 
text prompt
39
33x 
year-on-year 
improvement
in energy of median Gemini 
Apps text prompt
40
AI stack Outcomes
14

Custom-built infrastructure 
and hardware
Our infrastructure enables us to power our own products 
and support the services we provide to our Google Cloud 
customers—allowing them to scale their workloads without 
the energy overhead of building and managing their own 
on-premises facilities.
Google’s data centers are among the industry’s most efficient, 
operating with a 2025 fleet-wide average PUE of 1.09 (Figure 
2) and using 83% less overhead energy than the industry 
average.
41 In 2025, our data centers delivered over 3 times 
more compute performance per unit of energy than five years 
ago, driven largely by TPU energy efficiency improvements and 
their deployment to support AI.
42
We’ve been designing our TPUs for over a decade to maximize 
performance per watt, with integrated power management 
that dynamically adjusts the power draw based on real-time 
demand. We also co-design our AI models with our TPUs, 
ensuring our software takes full advantage of our hardware—
and vice versa.
In early 2025, we launched Ironwood , our seventh-generation 
TPU—which is nearly 30 times more power efficient than our 
first Cloud TPU from 2018, 43 and which delivers double the 
performance-per-watt than our sixth-generation TPU Trillium 
from 2024. Most recently, our eighth-generation TPUs (TPU 
8t, optimized for training, and TPU 8i, optimized for inference) 
deliver up to two times better performance-per-watt 
over Ironwood.
44
In 2025, we published a first-of-its-kind study on the lifetime 
emissions of our TPU hardware —from raw material extraction 
and manufacturing to energy consumption during operation. 
We’ve since updated that analysis and included Ironwood, 
which demonstrated an approximately 3.7x improvement 
in Compute Carbon Intensity
45 compared to TPU v5p, the 
previous generation of performance-optimized TPUs (Figure 
3).
46 Our newer generations of TPUs are designed to provide 
cutting-edge performance while further reducing carbon 
emissions for equivalent AI workloads.
In addition to our own chips, we offer the industry’s widest 
variety of compute options, including NVIDIA’s Blackwell 
Graphics Processing Units (GPUs), which NVIDIA estimates are 
25 times as energy efficient as the NVIDIA H100.
47
Beyond hardware efficiency, we’re optimizing how our data 
centers interact with the electrical grids that serve them. For 
years, we’ve worked to ensure our operations consume power 
Figure 2. 
Data center energy efficiency (PUE) 
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 20172015 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
1.20
1.18
1.16
1.14
1.12
1.10
1.08
0
PUE
Ye a r
Fleet-wide trailing 12-month PUE
Legend
15

more flexibly via demand response, a capability that allows us 
to reduce power demand during certain hours when the grid is 
stressed by shifting non-urgent compute tasks to other times 
and locations, without impacting our products and services 
used every day.
We’ve evolved our demand response capability to limit or shift 
a portion of the machine learning workloads running in our 
data centers. Since announcing initial agreements with Indiana 
Michigan Power (I&M) and Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) in 
2025, we’ve signed contracts with Entergy Arkansas, Minnesota 
Power, and DTE Energy that incorporate demand response as 
a key resource for new data centers to connect more rapidly 
to local grids. As of early 2026, we’ve integrated a total of 1 
GW of demand response capacity into our long-term energy 
contracts with multiple utilities across the United States.
Demand flexibility can help energy utilities and power system 
operators better utilize existing grid resources, enabling the 
power systems we rely on to run more efficiently, reliably, and 
cost-effectively for everyone.
49
Figure 3.
TPU efficiency improvements
CCI improvement trends across Google’s versatile and performance-optimized TPU cohorts, considering January 2026 
workloads.
48 
 Compute Carbon Intensity (gCO2e/EFLOP) 
v4i v5e Trillium v4 v5p Ironwood
400
300
200
100
0
Legend
Indirect emissions 
from manufacturing
Indirect emissions 
from data center 
construction
Indirect emissions 
from transportation
Indirect emissions 
from energy use
Direct emissions 
from energy use
Versatile TPUs Performance-optimized TPUs
3.7x
improvement
2020 2023 2024 2022 2023 2025
Year
16
More efficient model architectures
Over the last decade, our research teams have pushed the 
boundaries of AI. We offer an extensive model portfolio, using 
years of research to make training and serving less compute-
intensive. Gemini models are built on the Transformer model 
architecture developed by Google researchers, which 
provided an efficiency boost over the previous state-of-the-
art architectures. Gemini 3 was designed to deliver advanced 
multimodal understanding and represents our most capable 
iteration of agentic and generative coding technologies.
Refining how models deliver information is just as critical 
as how they’re built. We use Accurate Quantized Training 
and speculative decoding —where a smaller model makes 
predictions verified by a larger one—to serve more responses 
with fewer chips. Techniques like distillation create smaller, 
more efficient models like Gemini Flash and Flash-Lite by using 
our larger, more capable models as teachers. And with all 15 of 
our half-billion-user products—including seven with two billion 
users—using our Gemini models, this efficiency work is vital to 
our global impact.

Outcomes from our AI stack innovation
Comprehensive data on the energy and environmental impact 
of AI inference has been limited, which is why we published a 
technical paper detailing our comprehensive methodology for 
measuring the energy, emissions, and water impact of Gemini 
prompts as of May 2025.
Using this methodology, we estimated that the median Gemini 
Apps text prompt uses 0.24 watt-hours (Wh) of energy, 
emits 0.03 grams of carbon dioxide equivalent (gCO
2e), and 
consumes 0.26 milliliters (or about five drops) of water 50—
figures that are substantially lower than many public estimates. 
The per-prompt energy impact is equivalent to watching TV for 
less than nine seconds.
51
Our AI systems are becoming more efficient through 
research innovations and software and hardware efficiency 
improvements. Over a 12 month period, the energy and total 
carbon footprint of the median Gemini Apps text prompt 
dropped by factors of 33 and 44, respectively,
52 all while 
delivering higher-quality responses ( Figure 4).
Figure 4. 
Gemini efficiency improvements
Energy and carbon efficiency improvements per 
median Gemini Apps text prompt from May 2024 to 
May 2025.
Watt-hour
May 2024
7.92
0.24 
May 2025
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Energy
May 2024
1.32
0.03 
May 2025
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
gCO2e
Carbon
33x 
improvement
44x 
improvement
Date
Date
17
Building the supply: Scaling 
clean energy to meet 
the moment
Electricity powers everything we do—from training AI models 
to delivering Search results and YouTube videos. As our energy 
needs grow, we remain committed to meeting that demand 
responsibly and working to unlock cleaner, smarter, and more 
resilient grids.
Clean energy procurement
Clean energy is our first choice because it makes good 
business sense. In many markets it’s already the most cost-
effective option, and it provides valuable energy security in a 
time of significant market volatility. Longer-term, we believe it’s 
the best option for our users and the planet.

Figure 5. 
Clean energy agreements
29+ GW
across 148 projects 4+ GW
across 75 projects
~600 MW
across 17 projects
400+ MW
across 4 projects
Google’s work to procure clean energy began in 2010 when 
we signed our first power purchase agreement. Since then, 
Google and other corporate clean energy buyers have played a 
critical role in scaling clean e nergy deployment.
Google is one of the largest corporate purchasers of clean 
energy in the world. From 2010 to 2025, we signed more than 
240 agreements to purchase nearly 35 GW of net-new clean 
energy, with more than 12 GW contracted in 2025 alone53—
the largest annual total in our history and more than our total 
procurement from the previous two years combined. Through 
these cumulative agreements, we’re expanding the global 
power supply with enough new capacity to power over 28 
million U.S. homes,54 or roughly every hou sehold in New York, 
Texas, and Pennsylvania combin ed.55
Our 240 cumulative agreements have spanned the globe, 
totaling over 29 GW in North America, over 4 GW in Europe, 
over 400 MW in Latin America, and nearly 600 MW in Asia 
Pacific (Figure 5).
In the United States, we scaled our clean energy procurement 
by diversifying into a broader range of “around-the-clock” 
clean energy technologies. These include restarting Iowa’s 
Duane Arnold En
ergy Center for 600 MW of nuclear energy, 
e
stablishing a first-of-its-kind hydropower framework 
agreement to deliver up to 3,000 MW across the PJM and 
MISO grid regions, and securing regulatory approval for 115 
MW of enhanced geothermal power in Nevada. Across these 
deals, we’re continuing to build a resilient, carbon-free future 
for the American energy grid.
In Europe, we announced a major portfolio expansion with 
Engie in Germany to assemble a flexible suite of clean energy 
sources—including new onshore wind and solar projects—
while optimizing our existing portfolio through battery and 
hydro storage systems. We pioneered innovative solutions 
in the United Kingdom, selecting a 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy 
Manager with access to battery energy storage systems to 
better match our hourly demand with clean energy. In the 
Netherlands, we signed the first corporate PPA to extend the 
lifespan of an offshore wind farm,
56 and in Belgium, we signed 
new agreements to develop new onshore wind farms.
In Asia Pacific, we continued to grow our CFE portfolio, 
navigating the region’s unique grid constraints. We signed 
our first solar deals in Malaysia for approximately 50 MW 
and expanded our solar portfolio to support our data center 
in Japan. We also achieved two regional firsts for Google in 
18

Taiwan by signing an offshore wind PPA and a geothermal 
investment for reliable, “always-on” power.
As demand for our products has risen, so too have our 
electricity needs. To support all our products and digital 
services—including AI—our total electricity consumption grew 
by 37% in 2025, up from 27% in 2024. But our long-term clean 
energy procurement strategy is yielding impressive results. In 
2025, more than 25 contracted projects came online, adding 
nearly 2 GW of new clean energy to the grids supporting 
our operations.
Also in 2025 alone, we signed over 70 new clean energy 
agreements which we estimate, once operational, could 
generate nearly four times more electricity than our 
incremental load growth from 2024 to 2025.
57 Looking ahead, 
we’re focused on bringing new capacity to the grids where our 
energy demand is growing, to ensure that we’re helping make 
the grids that serve us more reliable, affordable, and clean over 
the long-term.
But we’re not just buyers of clean energy; we’re also investing 
to accelerate and increase clean energy supply. From 2010 to 
2025, we entered into agreements to invest more than $3.8 
billion in projects and partnerships which are expected to bring 
online around 7.5 GW of clean electricity.
58 Our participation, 
especially in early stages when risk is higher, helps provide the 
catalytic capital necessary to move these projects forward. 
Beyond these targeted deals, we also invest in frontier clean 
energy technologies, including geothermal energy in the 
United States and Asia Pacific , fusion energy, and other 
emerging solutions.
A Google Data Center Operations Facility Technician 
stands in front of an electric substation near our data 
center under construction in Clarksville, Tennessee.
19
Beyond the horizon: 
Accelerating the next 
generation of clean energy
To meet growing electricity demands, energy systems must 
be modernized to ensure they’re reliable, efficient, and cost-
effective. Beyond today’s mature energy technologies, we’re 
focused on developing round-the-clock clean energy sources 
and investing in a resilient grid capable of supporting long-term 
economic growth.
In 2025, we continued to accelerate the next generation 
of clean energy through catalytic efforts to commercialize 
technologies including advanced nuclear, fusion energy, 
enhanced geothermal , long-duration energy storage , 
and natural gas with carbon capture and storage . We also 
recognize that these breakthroughs require time to reach 
commercial scale, so creative interim solutions are essential to 
maintain progress in the meantime.
This innovation cycle is incomplete, however, without a 
parallel focus on modernizing a fragmented and aging grid. To 
optimize power delivery, we’re investing in grid technologies 
like advanced reconductoring technologies that expand 
transmission capacity, or computational tools that maximize 
the efficiency and reliability of existing grid infrastructure.
However, scaling these technologies requires navigating 
complex market design gaps and evolving regulatory 
frameworks. Overcoming these barriers will take time, but 
we’re committed to partnering across the ecosystem to build 
the frameworks necessary for long-term success. We make 
these investments to drive global impact. By funding early-
stage projects and lowering long-term costs, we help new 
technologies scale up—turning Google’s growth into an engine 
for energy innovation.

Nuclear
Nuclear energy has a long history providing safe, reliable, carbon-free power—
and we’re entering an exciting period of new innovation and growth for the 
industry. To accelerate this growth, we’re pursuing a dual-track strategy: 
supporting the revitalization of today’s proven nuclear infrastructure while 
investing in the next-generation nuclear technologies of tomorrow.
In October 2025, we announced a collaboration with NextEra Energy to restart 
the Duane Arnold Energy Center. Reopening an existing plant is the fastest way 
for us to secure bulk quantities of reliable, carbon-free capacity. We expect 
Duane Arnold to be back online in early 2029, and the plant will provide 600 MW 
of clean, safe, “always-on” nuclear energy to the regional grid. This will support 
our growing cloud and AI infrastructure in Iowa and bring thousands of jobs and 
substantial economic benefits to the region.
By pioneering a newer generation of SMRs, we can simultaneously advance 
a safe, versatile energy source that can be sited nearly anywhere and bring 
significant economic benefits to local communities. Marking a major milestone 
in the first-ever corporate offtake agreement for SMRs, Google, Kairos Power, 
and the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) broke ground at our first project site: 
the Hermes 2 Plant in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. This agreement will enable 50 MW 
of nuclear energy on TVA’s grid —which powers our data centers in Montgomery 
County, Tennessee and Jackson County, Alabama—once operational in 2030. 
It’s part of Google’s long-term collaboration with Kairos to unlock up to 500 MW 
of nuclear power for the U.S. electricity system through multiple deployments 
of its small modular reactor. Kairos Power’s Hermes 2 Demonstration Plant will 
help re-establish Oak Ridge as a nuclear innovation hub, including through new 
programs developed in partnership with the University of Tennessee and other 
local universities to grow local workforce talent for high-paying jobs as plant 
operators and engineers.
Google Cloud and Westinghouse announced a joint effort to deploy a custom 
AI-powered platform that can predict bottlenecks, optimize construction task 
sequences, adjust staffing levels, and account for external factors like supply 
chain constraints for the construction of their AP1000 nuclear reactors.
Long-duration energy storage
To bridge the gap between renewable generation and demand, Google 
announced a partnership with Energy Dome to deploy long-duration energy 
storage (LDES). Energy Dome uses a novel "CO
2 battery" technology that can 
store excess renewable energy and dispatch it back to the grid for 8 to 24 hours, 
providing capacity and reliability to the system.
We’re partnering to use AI to 
accelerate the construction, 
safety, and operations of state-
of-the-art nuclear reactors 
(Photo credit: Georgia Power).
20

By bringing this first-of-a-kind LDES technology to market 
faster, we aim to rapidly share its potential with communities 
everywhere—making reliable, affordable electricity available 
around the clock and supporting the resilience of grids as they 
integrate growing amounts of renewable energy sources.
Additionally, through a collaboration with Salt River Project 
(SRP), Google will also support multiple LDES pilot projects in 
Arizona—including a 50 MWh system from ESS Tech—enabling 
these technologies to come onto the grid before 2030. These 
pilots will help prove this technology at scale, all while providing 
value to the grid.
More recently, in early 2026, we announced a partnership with 
Xcel Energy and Form Energy to deploy a battery capable of 
delivering 300 MW of power and storing 30 GWh of energy, 
making it the largest battery by capacity announced so far. This 
battery will act as a critical grid resource, providing reliability 
to the grid even during extended periods of low wind or 
solar production.
Carbon capture and storage
Natural gas with carbon capture and storage (CCS) is a critical 
source of clean “firm” power that can increase generating 
capacity while enabling emissions reductions.
Google announced a first-of-its-kind offtake agreement 
from the Broadwing Energy project in Illinois, a new natural 
gas power plant equipped with CCS. The facility is designed 
to capture and permanently store at least 90% of its CO 2 
emissions deep underground. By agreeing to buy the majority 
of the power it generates, Google is helping get this new, 
baseload power source built and connected to the grid that 
supports our data centers in the region. This first project will 
help fast-track critical technical and operational improvements, 
from continuing to raise CO2 capture rates to improving system 
performance and economics.
Transparency will also be critical to ensure the environmental 
integrity of our projects. That’s why the project will also 
incorporate a newly-released standard for CCS-specific 
Energy Attribute Certificates59 (EACs), developed by industry 
experts to ensure CCS projects can be accurately quantified in 
emissions reporting.
Long-term bets on fusion
Commercializing fusion is one of our boldest bets for a cleaner 
energy future, and we’re taking significant steps to move this 
technology from the lab to the grid.
In 2025, we signed the largest direct corporate offtake 
agreement for fusion energy with Commonwealth Fusion 
Systems (CFS) to purchase 200 MW of CFE from its first 
commercial plant in Chesterfield, Virginia, which is expected to 
begin operations in the 2030s. This partnership aims to prove 
the company’s pathway to commercial power and catalyze the 
broader fusion market.
Our support for fusion also includes long-term research 
collaborations, applying our AI expertise to solve complex 
physics challenges. We’ve been an investor in TAE Technologies 
since 2015, and have collaborated to use machine learning to 
improve plasma stability and simplify machine design, helping 
make fusion power more economically viable. We’re also 
bringing the plasma research we’ve developed to a partnership 
with CFS to accelerate the timeline to deliver fusion energy to 
the grid.
While the diverse range of actions we’ve taken have helped 
advance the next generation of energy solutions, there’s 
much more to be done. Commercializing fusion is immensely 
challenging, and success is not guaranteed. As we build on 
our momentum in the years to come, we’ll continue to refine 
our approach and push for the innovations needed to create 
more reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy systems for 
the world.
We’re partnering with Commonwealth Fusion Systems to 
bring clean, safe, limitless fusion energy closer to reality.
21

Grid technologies
Generating CFE is only half the battle; a modern grid is needed 
to deliver it. While physical upgrades can take decades, digital 
tools can help maximize the capacity of existing infrastructure 
and support the integration of more renewable energy.
In 2025, Tapestry—a part of X, Alphabet’s moonshot factory—
launched HyperQ, the first milestone in a multi-phase initiative 
with PJM Interconnection to develop new AI tools to accelerate 
interconnection. This tool uses agentic AI to pre-screen the 
site control portion of a generator’s submission—a critical 
phase of the interconnection process—in less than 10 minutes, 
enabling expert reviewers to begin their assessments without 
delay. Streamlining these reviews can accelerate the timeline 
for solar, wind, and storage projects, which make up the vast 
majority of new energy requests. 60
Inspecting the grid is a difficult task, made only more difficult 
by surging energy demand, frequent extreme weather, and 
increasing structural complexity. That’s why Tapestry is 
working with Vector, New Zealand’s largest electric utility, to 
modernize the inspection of critical grid assets like poles and 
transformers. With GridAware, Tapestry’s grid management 
and intelligence platform, this collaboration increased Vector’s 
grid network visibility by 221% and made roadside pole 
inspections five times faster. This success has since expanded 
into a first-of-its-kind national consortium that now serves 
over half of New Zealand’s electricity customers, providing 
a scalable model for AI-driven climate adaptation and 
infrastructure resilience.
In early 2026, Google Cloud and Tapestry announced a 
partnership with CTC Global Corporation to accelerate 
advanced reconductoring, which can double the capacity of 
existing lines. By integrating high-resolution data from CTC’s 
GridVista hardware into Tapestry’s AI tools, we’re turning 
static power lines into intelligent assets that unlock the grid’s 
untapped potential to deliver more CFE.
Same time, same place: 
Using Granular Certificates to 
meet rising AI demand
Granular Certificates 61 (GCs)—also known as Time-based 
Energy Attribute Certificates (T-EACs)—are new tools designed 
to accelerate grid decarbonization and incentivize clean energy 
and storage.
Our long-standing commitment to more credible and impactful 
clean energy purchasing has helped shape the development 
of GCs globally. By transitioning from pilot programs starting 
in 2021 to the application of GCs to our scope 2 (market-
based) footprint in 2025, we achieved three critical outcomes: 
effectively managing our energy-related emissions, more 
precisely matching our consumption with CFE on the same grid 
and at the same hour, and supporting the expansion of a global 
GC ecosystem.
Moving from annual averages to 
hourly precision
Traditional annual EACs have spurred renewable energy, but 
they fail to capture the variability of these resources. Because 
of this, they don’t incentivize the critical investments—like 
storage, demand flexibility, and clean firm power—needed to 
reliably deliver clean energy around the clock.
By contrast, GCs represent clean energy that is generated in 
the same time and location as electricity demand, enabling 
more credible claims to clean energy use. GCs also allow 
clean energy to be purchased, traded, and tracked on an 
hourly basis, creating a transparent price signal which steers 
investments that accelerate decarbonization in a secure, 
reliable way. Leading research finds that when adopted at 
scale, hourly and locational matching enabled by GCs can 
support electricity grid management and reduce electricity 
system costs; provide price incentives that drive clean energy, 
storage, and flexibility deployment; and reduce barriers to 
high levels of hourly clean energy matching, accelerating 
grid decarbonization.
22

To demonstrate that hourly accounting is a mature and 
scalable solution, we certify our GC portfolio—whether 
sourced through long-term clean energy agreements or 
purchased from the marketplace—in accordance with the 
EnergyTag Granular Certificate Scheme Standard . This large-
scale implementation proves that hourly energy accounting 
is operationally feasible at scale, creating a robust audit trail 
that prevents double counting and supports hourly matching 
goals. Additionally, we collaborated with Dutch utility Eneco to 
complete a bilateral exchange of excess wind and solar GCs 
with a Dutch telecommunications company—demonstrating 
how such trades can improve each party’s hourly matching.
Expanding the toolkit with 
marketplaces and registry enablement
We aren’t just participants in the GC ecosystem; as an early 
pioneer and advocate for hourly tracking, we’ve spent years 
driving the standards and infrastructure needed to build 
the GC ecosystem. As a founding member of the Granular 
Certificate Trading Alliance (GCTA), we helped launch a 
first-of-its-kind trading and management platform designed 
to facilitate the hourly trading of CFE. And in 2025, we 
participated in the first-ever granular certificate spot auction 
in PJM, facilitated by the GCTA. This pilot demonstrated a 
transparent, hourly marketplace capable of providing the 
precise price signals needed to incentivize clean energy 
exactly when and where the grid needs it most. While we work 
to expand the marketplace, we’re also engaging directly with 
developers and brokers across the United States, Asia Pacific, 
Europe, and Latin America to build the GC market.
Long-term clean energy agreements remain our primary 
focus, however, marketplace GCs serve as a complementary 
mechanism to signal hourly demand and drive investments 
where and when they’re needed most. For scope 2 
procurement in 2025, we ensured that the majority of our 
market-based reductions resulted from our long-term clean 
energy agreements (81%), while GCs purchased from the 
marketplace accounted for far less (19%) ( Figure 6).
62
Figure 6.
Scope 2 market-based reductions
Million tCO2e
Scope 2 
(location-based)
Long-term clean 
energy agreements
GCs purchased from 
the marketplace
Scope 2 
(market-based)
15
10
5
0
81% reduction
19% reduction
23
Scaling GCs requires widespread registry adoption, so we’re 
also pushing for another major ecosystem shift: enabling 
registries to issue and trade GCs directly via the Registry 
Acceleration Fund, which is supported by the GCTA. This 
initiative removes a major barrier—insufficient resources 
for technical upgrades—and helps build the foundational 
infrastructure required to scale GC issuance and trading at a 
global scale. Funding was announced in 2025 for registries that 
collectively issue or track more than 4,000 TWh of certificates 
across over 70 countries for more than 40,000 account holders.

We continue to advocate for improving the physical alignment of clean energy 
accounting—ensuring generation and consumption are linked by time and 
location—as a foundational tool to advancing clean energy across all regions of 
the world.
By prioritizing hourly data access in our contracts and supporting global data 
infrastructure, we’re helping ensure that rapidly growing electricity demand can 
be met with clean generation everywhere, every hour.
Being a good neighbor: Google’s 
approach to enabling more 
affordable power
To power the next generation of AI and digital services, our energy needs are 
increasing—a reality that requires us to be more than just energy consumers. 
We’re committed to being a good neighbor, which begins with ensuring our 
expansion doesn’t burden local communities or ratepayers. We intentionally 
structure our energy deals to cover 100% of the costs of the power we use. Our 
responsible growth strategy also focuses on expanding access to affordable, 
reliable, and clean energy for everyone in the communities we call home.
Investing in grid stability and affordability
We’re committed to strengthening the local energy supply and grid system 
everywhere we operate, investing in net-new energy supply to meet our needs 
without shifting costs onto ratepayers.
63 To achieve this, we’re proactively 
collaborating with our utility partners and regulators to develop new market 
innovations that enable us to cover the costs of new infrastructure driven by 
our growth.
In the United States, we’ve worked closely with our utility partners and 
regulators to develop frameworks like the Capacity Commitment Framework , 
a contract model that enables large energy users to fund the specific 
infrastructure needed to serve them through long-term financial promises and 
guaranteed minimum payments, and the Clean Transition Tariff , which creates 
a scalable pathway for utilities and large energy users to invest in clean, reliable 
electricity and accelerate advanced technologies. Through these solutions—
which are designed to shield U.S. families from bearing the costs of large energy 
customers—we pay the full costs for the energy we use and we’ll cover the 
infrastructure needs directly attributable to our growth.
64
Rødby solar farm in Denmark 
(55 MW for Google).
24

Beyond funding our own needs, we’re helping to improve the 
grid for everyone by accelerating the deployment of modern 
grid technology. For example, we’re partnering with CTC 
Global Corporation to accelerate the deployment of advanced 
conductors in the United States, which can double the power 
transfer capacity of existing transmission corridors in months, 
for a fraction of the cost of building new ones.
65
Finally, we’re using data center flexibility to get the most out 
of our existing infrastructure. By shifting or reducing power 
use during peak times, we help balance supply and demand—
supporting reliability during times of grid stress and reducing 
the need for investment in new generating capacity. In places 
like Indiana and Tennessee, we have demand response 
agreements to reduce power consumption from machine 
learning workloads when the grid is strained. This supports 
grid stability during peak demand, reduces the need for new 
infrastructure, and lowers overall system costs.
To codify these efforts, in early 2026, Google signed the 
White House Ratepayer Protection Pledge , demonstrating our 
confidence that energy growth and ratepayer protection can 
go hand-in-hand.
When built responsibly, data centers provide long-
term, reliable electricity demand that stimulates new 
investments in energy generation and transmission in 
a way that helps all consumers. Importantly, large load 
customers can help put downward pressure on utility 
rates by spreading the fixed costs of essential grid 
upgrades across more energy usage. For example, a 
study from Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory 
found that states with higher electricity load growth 
from 2019 to 2024 saw reductions in average retail 
electricity prices, whereas states with contracting 
loads generally saw prices rise.
66
25
Helping our neighbors
Working together with our partners, we’re helping bring relief 
to households experiencing high energy bills. We’re funding 
affordability initiatives to stabilize energy costs and support the 
local grids where we operate. These initiatives affirm our long-
held commitment to protect ratepayers, create jobs, and keep 
the grid reliable as our business grows.
Across the United States, we’re putting our principles into 
action through targeted energy initiatives. Below are just a 
few examples:
• Arkansas: We launched a $25 million Energy Impact Fund 
that will help scale and accelerate critical affordability 
initiatives for the local community, including the 
deployment of cost-saving efficiency technologies and 
home weatherization improvements.
• Georgia: In 2025, we supported the City of Atlanta to 
expand the WeatheRISE ATL program, which delivers 
attic insulation, HVAC repairs, and critical home fixes to 
households in historically disinvested neighborhoods. 
To ensure these improvements scale, we supported a 
workforce development initiative that trains residents in 
building science and energy efficiency while also providing 
contractor upskilling in these sectors. Additionally, we’re 
partnering with Georgia Power to fund health and safety 
repairs—like fixing roofs and broken doors—helping 
previously ineligible customers qualify for efficiency 
upgrades. This effort also includes replacing inefficient air 
conditioners in homes with modern technologies like heat 
pumps, empowering more Georgians to reduce their long-
term energy costs.
• Nebraska: We’re supporting a United Way of the Midlands 
and Omaha Public Power District program to help 
weatherize low-income homes in Douglas County. This 
is expected to save participating local families between 
$840–$1,260 every year on their utility bills. Google is also 
supporting Lincoln Electric System’s efficiency program, 
which will provide low-income multifamily properties with 
upgrades such as high-efficiency heat pumps, insulation, 
and smart thermostats.

• North and South Carolina: We’re collaborating with Sol Systems to help 
reduce energy costs and expand access to clean power for our data center 
communities in both North and South Carolina. For example, our support of 
local weatherization readiness and health and safety repairs led to annual cost 
savings estimated at $545–$729 per participating home.
67 We also announced 
an investment with the Berkeley Electric Cooperative—in partnership 
with the local nonprofit Hope Repair—that will support home repairs, 
pre-weatherization, and energy efficiency upgrades to help families in Berkeley 
and Charleston counties in South Carolina lower their monthly energy costs.
• Oklahoma: We announced a donation to Stillwater Public Schools for energy 
efficiency upgrades that are projected to save the district over $340,000 
each year, enabling those funds to be reinvested into academic programs 
and technology.
• Texas: We established a $30 million Energy Impact Fund to scale and 
accelerate energy initiatives. We’re also collaborating with the Texas Energy 
Poverty Research Institute to create energy resilience hubs at multi-
tenant facilities in the Dallas-Fort Worth metro that will protect vulnerable 
communities during extreme weather and reduce monthly electricity costs, 
freeing up capital for more social services.
• Virginia: In Southwest Virginia, we’re collaborating with Appalachian Voices 
to develop community resilience hubs. These facilities use solar and battery 
storage to provide shelter and power during emergencies, while feeding 
energy back to the grid during peak times to help drive down overall costs 
for the community.
In Europe, we’re building our new data centers with the infrastructure needed 
to support off-site heat recovery, if an offtaker is identified. By partnering with 
local providers to feed this heat into district networks, we can support local 
community energy needs:
• Finland: In Hamina, the recovered heat from Google’s data center is 
expected to cover 80% of the annual heat needs for the Hamina district 
heating network—according to Haminan Energia—and was provided free of 
charge to local households, schools, and public service buildings.
68
• Germany: In Dietzenbach, Google is collaborating with the local district 
heating provider to capture and repurpose excess heat from a forthcoming 
data center to be fed into the district heating network and used by 
local households.
At Google, we’re committed to continuing to accelerate initiatives like these 
that help lower energy bills and strengthen local power grids across our data 
center communities.
A beautiful landscape forms 
during winter outside our data 
center in Hamina, Finland.
26

From annually to hourly: 
Focusing on 24/7 carbon-
free energy—every hour, on 
every grid
Many organizations focus on matching their total annual 
electricity use with purchases of clean energy. However, this 
global accounting method doesn’t tell the whole story: even 
companies that meet a 100% annual match continue to rely on 
power generated by fossil fuels during times when, or in places 
where, carbon-free generation isn’t available (Figure 7).
Figure 7.
Hourly CFE performance at a hypothetical site
Due to the variability associated with renewable energy (symbolized by green spikes above), 
operators still sometimes rely on carbon-based resources from the grid during periods of low wind or solar.
January 1
Hourly energy supply
December 31
Electricity
demand 
Legend
 Carbon-free energy supply Gaps in carbon-free energy
As large power consumers like Google experience rapid 
demand growth—evidenced by our own electricity 
consumption rising 37% year-on-year in 2025—the limitations 
of this approach have never been more clear. Under this 
framework, a company can claim to be “powered by 100% 
renewable energy” through a global match of renewable 
energy purchased in distant regions, even if their local growth 
is actually run on fossil fuel generation. To truly decarbonize 
grids and ensure long-term affordability for everyone, large 
In users must shift their focus from simply procuring clean 
megawatts—wherever and whenever they might be available—
to investing in reliable, clean capacity on the local grids that 
actually serve them.
That’s why we’ve sharpened our focus to scaling real-world 
solutions for decarbonizing local grids, through our 24/7 
carbon-free energy ambition. Going further than a 100% 
renewable energy match, 24/7 CFE requires an hourly and 
local match. It demands a diverse technology portfolio—
including variable renewables, battery storage, and clean firm 
technologies—to meet our electricity demand more efficiently 
around the clock, all while driving down the cost and increasing 
the accessibility of these technologies for everyone. It involves 
employing smarter computing that shifts work to when and 
where the grid is least carbon-intensive. And it depends on 
market tools like GCs that track exactly when and where CFE is 
produced, providing the data and market instruments needed 
to achieve hourly matching of CFE procurement to power 
consumption. Ultimately, it shifts the focus from offsetting 
emissions from fossil generation to high-impact solutions that 
can credibly supply growing electricity loads and meet the 
real-world needs of local grids.
27

2012, we set out on a pursuit to match 100% of our annual global 
electricity consumption with renewable energy purchases, 
and after five years of scaling clean energy through direct 
purchases and partnerships with utilities, we became the first 
major company to achieve it in 2017.
69 In 2025, we achieved 
this milestone again (Figure 8)—with more than 25 contracted 
projects coming online, adding nearly 2 GW of new clean energy 
to the grids supporting our operations.
Figure 8.
Renewable energy matching
Legend
Terawatt-hours
201920142013201220112010 2015 201820172016 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Ye a r
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Total electricity consumption Global renewable energy matching
Google signed 
our first PPA
Google announced pursuit of 
100% renewable energy match
Google first achieved 
100% renewable energy match
And while we’re proud of the legacy of this progress, we’re 
working to align our resources toward the most effective way 
to drive grid decarbonization while strengthening the stability 
and long-term affordability of the worldwide energy systems 
we all share.
70 To achieve this, we’re prioritizing next-generation 
energy innovations. This includes pioneering new pathways for 
neighborhood-level investments in distributed energy resources 
(DERs) to empower local grids, alongside deepening our 
commitments to energy affordability. Furthermore, we’re scaling 
up investments in advanced technologies and developing 
leading-edge data centers designed to serve as living 
blueprints for what can be accomplished through innovations in 
infrastructure and CFE technology.
Norther Offshore wind farm in 
Belgium (92 MW for Google).
28

Energy for our supply chain
29 Catalyzing new capacity: Partnering on innovative, localized clean energy projects
30 Shifting hotspots: Leading tools and partnerships for supply chain transformation
32 Sustainable standards: Using innovative design and materials to transform construction
29
Effecting change across a global supply chain can be daunting. 
It means navigating a web of energy-intensive manufacturing 
facilities, diverse local contexts, and varying levels of 
supplier maturity.
The Asia-Pacific region is a critical hub for Google’s hardware 
manufacturing, but the region faces hurdles for clean energy 
deployment. Many of our semiconductor suppliers operate 
on grids heavily reliant on fossil fuels, where policy barriers, 
land constraints, and high construction costs can limit clean 
energy availability.
We’re working to transform the clean energy landscape across 
our supply chain, from supplier engagement and targeted 
support to clean energy technologies like geothermal and 
hydropower. But decarbonizing our supply chain requires 
more than contracts and conversations. It requires deep 
partnerships to overcome systemic barriers and accelerate the 
transition toward carbon-free grids.
Despite these challenges, we’re building a more resilient supply 
chain by partnering with our suppliers on innovative solutions. 
And by sharing open-source tools and collaborating across 
the industry, we’re making efficiency and clean energy more 
accessible for everyone.
Catalyzing new capacity: 
Partnering on innovative, 
localized clean energy projects
When it comes to engaging our suppliers on emissions and 
energy, we’re focused on scalable impact. That means looking 
at our emissions hotspots and prioritizing engagement with our 
highest-impact suppliers to drive meaningful change across 
both our supply chain and the global energy system.
Empowering suppliers and piloting 
direct procurement
One of the ways we do this is through the Google Clean Energy 
Addendum (CEA), an agreement that asks our highest-impact 
hardware suppliers to commit to a 100% clean electricity 
match by the end of 2029 for the electricity they use to 
manufacture Google products.
71 This initiative moves beyond 
providing recommendations, establishing a shared agreement 
to accelerate the transition toward cleaner energy together. 
As of the end of 2025, the majority of our highest-impact 
hardware suppliers have signed our CEA.
We’re now focused on deepening our engagement with these 
high-impact suppliers, helping them overcome technical 
hurdles and resource constraints. Through the Catalyze 
program—of which Google is a founding member—we’re 
helping increase access to clean energy for our suppliers using 
a renewable energy certificate procurement platform and a 
cohort approach for PPAs.
We also support participation in regionally-focused clean 
electricity training programs like the Corporate Energy Buyers 
Association’s Clean Energy Procurement Academy (which was 
co-founded by Google). These programs help suppliers build 
the technical capabilities needed to drive progress through a 
combination of in-person workshops and e-learning courses 
across key markets in Asia Pacific. Ultimately, we believe

in sharing what has worked for us—like in our Consumer 
Hardware Carbon Reduction Guide —in the hopes that it might 
offer a helpful roadmap for others. Accelerating the transition 
to clean energy is a challenge that requires collaboration 
among many players.
While we’ll continue to work with suppliers to boost clean 
energy adoption, we do have some blind spots in our supply 
chain. Sometimes we lack the visibility to trace emissions to a 
specific partner. In other cases, there simply isn’t a supplier to 
engage—such as when tracking grid transmission losses or the 
electricity used to power consumer devices.
To address these emissions, we’re pioneering a direct 
procurement approach using high-quality EACs. Using this 
approach, we’re piloting long-term agreements for new clean 
energy capacity in certain supply chain regions, such as Asia 
Pacific. This allows us to credibly address value chain emissions 
even without full data transparency into a supplier’s footprint, 
catalyzing the market and directing capital to rapidly growing 
grids where it can have the greatest decarbonization impact.
Innovative clean energy outcomes
Through this dual approach of deepening supplier engagement 
and pioneering direct procurement, our tailored strategies are 
now delivering new clean energy to regional grids, accelerating 
the transition to a more sustainable and reliable power supply 
for our supply chain:
• Taiwan: In 2024, we announced a partnership to enable 1 
GW of new solar energy in Taiwan, advancing clean energy 
for both the local electricity grid and our own operations. 
We expect to procure up to 300 MW of solar energy 
from this pipeline, and we may offer a portion of it to our 
semiconductor suppliers and manufacturers in the region. 
As part of this partnership, in 2025, New Green Power 
signed a PPA to provide 77 GWh of new solar power to 
Taiwan’s electricity grid annually, which will help decarbonize 
our supply chain and the overall grid in the region.
• Japan: We’re collaborating with Kioxia Corporation to 
enable 160 GWh of clean electricity annually from a 
hydropower retrofit project in the Chūbu region of Japan, 
demonstrating how upgrading existing infrastructure 
can increase clean power generation with minimal 
environmental impact. This project supports our work with 
Kioxia Corporation to match its manufacturing of products 
for Google with 100% clean electricity.
• India: We partnered with ReNew Energy to enable a 150 
MW solar project in Rajasthan, India. We’ll use the EACs 
from this project to address emissions that aren’t traceable 
to a specific supplier. This deal puts into practice the 
principles outlined in our co-authored white paper, which 
provides a guide for scope 3 emissions decarbonization 
through direct procurement of EACs.
• Thailand: We partnered with the Catalyze program to 
enable one of our suppliers to procure 20 GWh of clean 
energy, which will help decarbonize our supply chain and 
the overall grid in the region.
By directing our supplier engagement efforts to these rapidly 
growing grids with high clean energy needs, we’re acting as a 
market catalyst, adding new clean energy to systems where it 
has the highest impact.
Shifting hotspots: Leading 
tools and partnerships for 
supply chain transformation
We’re working to transform how electronics are made and 
how their emissions are accounted for by targeting our supply 
chain’s biggest emissions hotspots. Beyond supporting clean 
energy solutions, we’re pioneering open-source resources and 
cross-industry collaborations to accelerate a more sustainable 
electronics sector.
Industry collaborations
Decarbonizing semiconductors is a top priority for the 
technology sector. Semiconductors are at the heart of all 
our hardware—both servers and consumer devices—and the 
industry is energy-intensive and relies on potent fluorinated 
greenhouse gases (F-GHGs).
30

At the 2025 SEMI Global Executive Summit , we partnered 
with SEMI to bring together executives from the sector and 
accelerate lower global warming potential 72 (GWP) process gas 
development, emissions abatement, clean energy adoption, 
and upstream supplier engagement. Recognizing that no single 
company can solve these challenges on its own, we’re leading 
a gas substitution initiative for the semiconductor value chain 
to develop experimental plans to accelerate the adoption 
of a low-GWP gas. Industry-wide change requires targeted 
engagements to tackle the technical challenges of reducing 
process emissions and increasing clean electricity access to 
drive measurable decarbonization progress.
Open-source resources
To improve transparency, we’re standardizing how the 
technology industry accounts for emissions from data 
center hardware. Through the Open Compute Project (OCP) 
Foundation and SEMI’s Semiconductor Climate Consortium , 
we’ve collaborated with other hyperscalers to develop Product 
Category Rules , which will enable more accurate, consistent, 
and actionable carbon footprinting for servers. This is critical 
work, especially as compute hardware manufacturing grows to 
a trillion dollar industry.
73
The development of Product Category Rules for data center 
hardware aims to provide guidance for generating actionable 
carbon footprints across Information and Communication 
Technology hardware. This framework standardizes hardware 
categories—from server racks down to individual circuit 
boards—and sets strict data quality rules to ensure consistent 
emissions tracking. By replacing rough estimates with reliable 
data, the framework allows companies to move beyond 
guesswork toward transparent data needed not only for 
corporate reporting, but also for design decisions that can 
actually lower supply chain emissions.
Energy assessment tool
Energy efficiency improvements help manufacturers reduce 
costs and emissions. However, a lack of in-house expertise and 
other challenges can block these improvements. As a result, 
simple efficiency projects are often overlooked.
That’s why we launched the Energy Assessment tool , to help 
manufacturing facility and plant managers identify potential 
energy-saving opportunities (Figure 9). This free, self-service 
platform allows facility managers to evaluate more than 20 
types of efficiency projects, such as energy-efficient air 
compressors, heating and cooling systems, LED lighting 
upgrades, and more—without needing specialized expertise. 
The tool provides customized recommendations and estimates 
the return on investment and energy savings for each project. 
To ensure the tool is easy to use across global manufacturing 
regions, it’s available in English, Chinese (simplified and 
traditional), Thai, and Vietnamese.
Figure 9. 
Energy Assessment tool illustration
31
As of the end of 2025, the Energy Assessment tool has helped 
roughly 150 companies assess nearly 300 projects. Together, 
these assessments identified more than 100 GWh in potential 
energy savings. This tool simplifies a complex process, allowing 
suppliers to prioritize investments that have the greatest 
impact. By equipping everyone with this resource, we’re 
accelerating energy efficiency and strengthening the resilience 
of our supply chain and beyond.

Sustainable standards: 
Using innovative 
design and materials to 
transform construction
We aim to optimize efficiency across our AI stack, which 
includes the construction of our technical infrastructure. While 
we expect a near-term increase in emissions from data center 
construction—which in 2025 reached approximately 2.3 million 
tCO
2e, or 20% of our total ambition-based scope 3 emissions—
we’re actively working to decouple this technical infrastructure 
growth from its associated carbon impact.
A key focus is reducing the embodied carbon of our 
facilities—the emissions generated constructing our data 
center infrastructure. By addressing these emissions through 
infrastructure optimization, updated designs, and low-carbon 
materials, we reduced the emissions intensity of our data 
center construction by 53% from 2019 to 2025 (Figure 10).
74 In 
fact, we estimate that these initiatives avoided approximately 
2.6 million tCO
2e in 2025 alone.75
Designing for efficiency
Building data centers at scale means small design changes 
create major opportunities to minimize our footprint. So 
we’re standardizing and optimizing our designs to prioritize 
efficiency, which reduces the infrastructure emissions intensity 
of our new buildings.
Figure 10.
Data center construction emissions intensity
Legend
Data center construction emissions intensity
Year
2024202120202019 2022 2023 2025
53% 
reduction
Emissions intensity (tCO2e/MW)
32

By updating our U.S.-based data center design specifications 
with details about alternative materials and reporting 
expectations, we’ve established baselines for our general 
contractors to follow. In addition to using low-embodied 
carbon construction material, these specifications call for 
our contractors to report the greenhouse gas footprint 
of their material purchases using Building Transparency ’s 
EC3 platform, and to prioritize low-carbon materials. We 
also ask our general contractors to sign the Contractor’s 
Commitment and use third-party frameworks to report on 
their sustainability performance.
Low-carbon materials
Steel and concrete are the backbones of our data centers, but 
they remain some of the most carbon-intensive materials in 
the world. To address this, we’re rethinking our procurement 
practices by prioritizing low-carbon concrete and low-carbon 
steel. We estimate that using low-carbon steel and concrete 
can reduce the embodied carbon emissions from data 
center infrastructure by up to 40%.
76 In 2025, we successfully 
integrated low-carbon concrete, steel, or a combination of 
both across more than 20 construction projects. Beyond our 
own operations, we’re also championing broader industry 
change by endorsing U.S. federal legislation like the IMPACT 
Act 2.0, which aims to scale the production and adoption of 
low-emissions concrete and asphalt nationwide.
Because heavy machinery and backup power traditionally rely 
on fossil fuels, we’re also changing how our construction sites 
operate. In 2025, we used renewable diesel for construction 
equipment and backup generators at several data center 
construction sites across North America. We’re also piloting the 
electrification of on-site construction activities. These shifts 
allow us to tackle the direct impact of our building activities 
while signaling a demand for cleaner technology in the broader 
construction market. We’ve also adjusted our baseline cost 
models for new data center projects to include renewable fuels 
and electric vehicle infrastructure from the start.
Industry partnerships
The construction industry relies on complex, tiered 
responsibility, making it difficult for any single entity to move the 
needle alone. That’s why we participate in several partnerships 
to drive innovation: we’re members of the iMasons Climate 
Accord governing body, and we hold a board seat at Building 
Transparency. We also joined the Sustainable Concrete Buyers 
Alliance and the Sustainable Steel Buyers Platform to collaborate 
with peers in advancing the development and procurement of 
low-carbon concrete and steel. In 2025, we collaborated with 
the OCP Foundation and others to launch the Embodied Carbon 
Disclosure Base Specification , a framework that establishes 
a common language for reporting the carbon impact of data 
center equipment. This simplifies information sharing and 
empowers all buyers to make data-driven, low-carbon decisions.
A Google Data Center Construction Program Manager 
at a construction site in South Carolina.
33

Resources
34
35 Water stewardship
40 Waste reduction
43 Nature on our campuses
45 Consumer hardware devices
Resource efficiency means maximizing the utility of materials 
across our operations, products, and supply chains—and 
enabling others to do the same.
We’re building a more resource-efficient Google by advancing responsible 
water use and replenishing local watersheds, maximizing reuse and designing 
out waste across our data centers and offices, and supporting biodiversity on 
our campuses. We’re also engineering our consumer hardware devices with 
circularity in mind, embedding recycled content and designing for longevity to 
create lasting value for our customers and the planet.

Water stewardship
35 Cooling with care: Advancing water resilience in Oregon
37 Replenishment through innovation: Scaling technology for local water security
35
We understood early on that, as the demand for digital services 
grew, so too would the need for water to cool data centers. 
The aggregate water consumption of data centers is actually 
fairly small—U.S. data centers use less than 1% of the water that 
Americans use on their lawns annually
77—but data centers can 
still impact local watersheds. That’s why we set out to find a 
responsible, sustainable way to manage this vital resource.
In 2021, we announced our water stewardship strategy : 
to advance responsible water use across our operations, 
replenish more freshwater than we consume and support 
watershed health where we operate, and support water 
security with technology.
Cooling with care: Advancing 
water resilience in Oregon
Data centers generate heat and often use water as a highly 
efficient means of cooling that requires less energy than 
air-cooling technologies. In 2025, we consumed 10.9 billion 
gallons (41 billion liters or 41 million cubic meters) of water 
across our data centers and offices. For context, that’s about 
what it takes to irrigate 73 golf courses annually, on average, 
in the southwestern United States.
78 And as our business 
expands, our water use grows, too. Our water consumption 
increased 34% from 2024 to 2025 as we continued to meet the 
world’s increasing demand for digital services, underlying the 
importance of managing this resource responsibly.
We apply our water risk framework to Google data centers 
to evaluate local watershed health and quantify scarcity and 
depletion risks. This data guides our technology choices and 
helps us minimize our impact on local water supplies from 
the start.
Let’s explore our data centers in The Dalles, Oregon, to 
discover how we’re building sustainability into our sites with 
smart cooling systems and thoughtful water use.
Water stewardship and efficiency at 
our Oregon data centers
In 2006, we began building and operating our own data 
centers—and it all started in The Dalles, Oregon. We’ve grown 
our presence there over two decades, and our newest campus 
sits on a former Superfund site that once housed an aluminum 
smelter, turning a piece of industrial history into a hub for the 
digital economy.
As part of our climate-conscious approach to cooling, we 
used our data center water risk framework to evaluate the 
water sources for our campuses in The Dalles. This site-level 
evaluation showed that the local water sources weren’t at high 
risk for depletion or scarcity, meaning that water cooling is a 
suitable, energy-efficient solution for this location.
79
Our facilities in The Dalles are among the most energy efficient in 
our fleet. During the fourth quarter of 2025, these sites required 
only 6% to 10% of additional energy for overhead—such as 
cooling and power distribution—relative to the energy used by 
their IT equipment, far lower than the 54% industry average.
80 
This efficiency is made possible in part due to our water cooling, 
meaning that, while we consumed 469 million gallons of water in 
The Dalles in 2025, our advanced cooling systems allowed us to 
squeeze more compute out of every watt. By using these efficient 
systems, we’re minimizing our operational water footprint and 
working to ensure more responsible use of local water resources.

Investing in shared water infrastructure
Our commitment to responsible water use goes beyond 
assessing water risk; we also invest in infrastructure that 
enhances water resilience for the broader community (Figure 
11). In 2025, we completed a new aquifer storage and recovery 
(ASR) system in The Dalles—a project that functions like an 
underground water savings account for the city.
Figure 11. 
Shared water infrastructure in The Dalles
Water from The Da lles 
Water Treatment Plant 
Well #1 ena bles water
to be moved in and out
of the aquifer. 
The Riverside Pump Sta tion
has been desi gned and built to
meet current water demand of
the community and has spare
capacity for future needs. 
The Riverside Sewer
Pump Sta tion pumps
wastewater from t his
area to the City's
treatment plant. 
 
Water sent to End Us ers 
Additional land was provi ded
to the City for future st orage
to meet the needs of
the community. 
 
Well #2 provi des redundancy
and expa nded water supply
capacity to the City's system. 
Two Reservoirs provide st orage
and allow for regular maintenance
without impacting o perations. 
Aquifer Sto rage and
Recovery allows the City 
to recharge the aquifer
in the wet season and
recover water in the
dry season. 
The system captures and stores treated water during the rainy 
season that would otherwise be lost as runoff. By banking this 
surplus, the city can draw on it during peak summer months 
when local supplies are most strained. Rather than relying 
on lower quality groundwater to meet summer demand, the 
community can now tap into its “savings” of supplemental 
water, helping to reduce reliance on its primary water source 
during dry spells and supporting the city’s overall water 
reliability efforts.
Upon completion, we permanently transferred ownership of 
the ASR system and associated groundwater rights to the City 
of The Dalles at no cost. By making this resource available 
for public benefit, we’ve helped enhance the community’s 
water supply.
To support local utility resilience, we’ve invested more than 
$28 million specifically for public water and wastewater 
infrastructure in The Dalles, including the ASR system. This 
funding supported the construction of new wells, reservoirs, 
a pump station, and a sanitary sewer lift station, helping to 
secure the area’s water future for decades.
36

We also recognize that our operations share the same 
resources as our neighbors, so we’re funding local 
replenishment and watershed health initiatives, like dam 
rehabilitation to protect downstream communities and support 
the reintroduction of salmon. These efforts ensure that as we 
grow, the local ecosystem and the community remain resilient.
Plumes of steam rise above our cooling towers at our data center at 
The Dalles, Oregon. When water vapor forms, it means that humidity 
and temperatures are low—indicating our cooling towers are at their 
most efficient.
37
Replenishment through 
innovation: Scaling technology 
for local water security
Our water stewardship strategy goes beyond managing 
our own water use—we’re also actively working to improve 
watershed health in the communities where we operate. To 
meet our water replenishment ambition, we continue to direct 
investments toward projects and partnerships.
In selecting these initiatives, we prioritize projects that address 
the unique hydrological challenges of each watershed, 
ensuring that impacts on local water security are specifically 
tailored to the needs of that region. By working with external 
partners to implement these projects, we deliver volumetric 
water benefits while addressing the relevant aspects of 
watershed health, such as water quality, community access, 
and biodiversity.
Local water issues vary by region, so we prioritize projects 
that address specific community needs. In 2025, we added 54 
new water stewardship projects to our portfolio, increasing 
our total portfolio to 165 projects spanning 97 watersheds 
(Figure 12).
81 These water stewardship projects replenished 
approximately 7.7 billion gallons of water (29 billion liters or 29 
million cubic meters) in 2025 alone, roughly 78% of our 2025 
freshwater consumption.
82 This amount of water replenished is 
roughly equivalent to the average annual water use of 70,000 
U.S. households.
83
And we estimate that these 165 projects will have the capacity 
to replenish more than 19.7 billion gallons of water in 2030, 
once projects are fully implemented.
84 This volume would be 
enough water to supply the city of Los Angeles for more than 
40 days.
85

Figure 12. 
Global water stewardship project map
Water supply 
reliability
Land conservation 
& restoration
Water, sanitation, & 
hygiene (WASH)
Aquatic habitat 
restoration
Water 
quality
Total 
projects
6829 11 34 23 165
Legend
Legend
Land conservation & restoration
Water supply reliability
Water, sanitation, & hygiene (WASH)
Aquatic habitat restoration
Water quality
Total projects
29
68
11
34
23
165
Project category Total
Land conservation 
& restoration
Water supply reliability
Water, sanitation, & hygiene 
(WASH)
Aquatic habitat restoration
Water quality
Total projects
29
68
11
34
23
165
Project category Total
Legend
Land conservation & restoration
Water supply reliability
Water, sanitation, & hygiene (WASH)
Aquatic habitat restoration
Water quality
Total projects
29
68
11
34
23
165
Project category Total
Legend
Latin America Asia Pacific
Europe, Middle East & AfricaNorth America
29
68
11
34
23
165
Project category Total
Legend
Land conservation 
& restoration
Water supply reliability
Water, sanitation, 
& hygiene (WASH)
Aquatic habitat restoration
Water quality
Total projects
38

Our expanding global portfolio does more than just deliver 
volumetric benefits—it enhances water security and builds 
resilience for a diverse range of communities. Many of our 
latest replenishment projects are deploying new innovative 
technologies to conserve water and improve water quality. 
Below are a few notable examples from regions around 
the world:
• Asia-Pacific: Bengaluru faces a widening gap between 
water demand and supply, leaving local schools struggling 
to provide consistent, clean water for students. We’re 
partnering with FluxGen to reduce water inefficiencies 
and establish reliable on-site water sources for these 
institutions. FluxGen uses smart sensors and AI to monitor 
water use, identify leaks, and quickly address wasted 
water. The system also harvests rainwater and recharges 
groundwater to replenish water on-site. Beyond the 
technology, students at FluxGen’s partner schools in 
Bengaluru will learn about responsible water use and 
replenishment through student-led Water Clubs.
• Europe: Non-residential buildings can lose a meaningful 
amount of water to undetected leaks. We’re working 
with Agua Segura to address this in Mons, Belgium, by 
supporting the installation of Shayp’s smart leak detection 
systems across 240 public buildings. This technology 
tracks real-time water flow to flag anomalies, enabling 
faster repairs that can save both water and public funds. 
The project will improve water supply reliability in Belgium’s 
Haine River watershed and expand local knowledge of 
water use and management.
• Latin America: In Chile’s Maipo River basin, prolonged 
drought and rising temperatures have placed pressure 
on the region’s water supply. To help, we’re expanding 
our partnership with Agua Segura in Santiago, Chile, 
to optimize irrigation across 150 hectares (370 acres) 
of farmland. By using Agrow Analytics’s management 
software, farmers can integrate local weather forecasts 
with crop conditions to irrigate with precision. This data-
driven approach prevents overwatering and excess runoff, 
helping secure critical savings for a watershed that serves 
as a lifeline for much of Chile’s population.
• North America: We’re enabling the deployment of 
technology for farmers to conserve water across the 
United States, from the Carolinas to Texas, Oregon, 
and the Midwest. In Arizona, we’re supporting the Gila 
River Indian Community in deploying Rubicon Water’s 
advanced smart sensor, automation, and software network 
across approximately 590 acres of agricultural land. This 
technology optimizes the timing and duration of irrigation 
to boost crop yields while conserving water—a critical 
effort for stabilizing Lake Mead, the Lower Colorado Basin’s 
vital reservoir.
Our water stewardship extends beyond digital tools. We 
implement a diverse portfolio of interventions tailored to local 
watershed needs, including community water access, water 
quality, and ecosystem health. This work enables communities 
to build greater resilience against a changing climate.
An aerial view of tidal marshes where a restoration project aims to revive degraded salt ponds and advance carbon removal 
research right next to Google’s campus in Mountain View, California (Photo credit: Cris Benton, kite aerial photography).
39

Waste reduction 
40 Zeroing in: Diverting waste in our data center operations
41 Deconstructing Hangar 3: A landmark opportunity for reuse
40
We’re working toward becoming a more circular Google by 
maximizing the reuse of finite resources across our operations, 
products, and supply chains—and enabling others to do the 
same. Our belief that the world must accelerate the circular 
economy is grounded in our commitment to minimizing 
environmental impacts and maximizing resource efficiency.
Zeroing in: Diverting waste in 
our data center operations
Responsibly scaling our data centers to meet the demand for 
AI requires keeping resources in use and minimizing waste—
which we’re advancing by launching innovative recycling pilots 
for complex packaging and scaling reverse logistics to give 
decommissioned hardware a second life. We’re also pursuing 
rigorous site-level zero-waste certifications to verify our 
progress and ensure that operational waste is diverted from 
landfills and back into use.
Packaging recovery pilots
We’re committed to reducing operational material needs 
and responsibly recycling data center waste. To optimize 
deployment efforts, we’re working to decrease the packaging 
entering our facilities, which in turn can reduce transportation 
needs and overall waste generation. Even with these efforts, 
equipment maintenance, hardware upgrades, or simply daily 
operations all inevitably generate waste in our data centers.
To tackle this waste, we collaborate closely with the teams 
that manage materials in our data centers every day, analyzing 
waste types and volumes to identify exactly what’s still 
heading to landfills. So when we saw an opportunity to reduce 
packaging waste at data center sites in North Carolina and 
South Carolina, we launched two packaging recovery pilots.
We partnered with specialized recyclers to handle complex 
packaging materials. By streamlining how we remove 
packaging on our loading docks, we made it easier to sort 
waste without slowing down daily operations. The results show 
that better logistics lead to better outcomes: these 2025 pilot 
sites achieved a 30% increase in site-managed waste diversion 
compared to local municipal diversion rates for each pilot 
site.
86 We’re now expanding this program to more sites across 
the United States and Europe.
Giving hardware a second life
Decommissioned data center equipment often risks becoming 
e-waste. To manage this at scale, our Reverse Supply Chain 
program finds ways to keep our components in use for longer. 
In 2025, we harvested more than 7.5 million components from 
our decommissioned hardware for internal reuse through our 
build, upgrade, and spares programs, reducing the need for 
new manufacturing. That’s millions of parts kept in circulation 
instead of being newly made.
Our first priority is internal redeployment, but when 
components aren’t needed for our own operations, we work to 
find them a home elsewhere. From 2015 to 2025, we’ve resold 
more than 54 million hardware components into the secondary 
market for reuse by other organizations—including 2.6 million 
in 2025 alone. By extending the lifespan of these parts, we 
help others avoid the need for new manufacturing—and the 
environmental impacts that come with it.

Certifying our zero-waste progress
In 2025, we diverted 88% of our operational waste from disposal 
across our global Google-owned and -operated data centers. 87 
This progress is the result of long-term work rethinking 
waste as a resource—from refining site-level management to 
extending the lifespan of server components and more.
While this global rate shows portfolio-wide momentum, 
waste management often requires local solutions to address 
site-specific nuances. To ensure meaningful progress at the 
individual facility level, we’ve adopted the UL 2799 certification, 
a rigorous third-party verification of zero-waste performance.
88
In 2025, we achieved UL 2799 Zero Waste to Landfill Validation 
for three facilities—two data center sites in South Carolina 
and Finland, and a warehouse in Ireland. Our South Carolina 
site achieved Zero Waste to Landfill Silver designation with a 
94% diversion rate, while our facility in Finland achieved Zero 
Waste to Landfill Platinum designation by diverting 100% of its 
waste. By successfully adapting our model to navigate regional 
infrastructure and unique local challenges, we’re proving that 
our waste reduction strategies are effective across diverse 
geographies. Furthermore, with our warehouse in Ireland 
reaching Zero Waste to Landfill Gold designation with a 99% 
diversion rate, we’re also demonstrating that our data center 
waste model can be successful in other operational areas 
like logistics.
Third-party validation is a demanding but essential 
undertaking. It requires high-fidelity data, cross-team 
collaboration, and scalable new approaches. Moving forward, 
we’ll continue to tackle complex waste streams, keep materials 
in circulation, and seek to expand site-level certifications.
Deconstructing Hangar 3: 
A landmark opportunity 
for reuse
We’re focused on maximizing the reuse of finite resources 
across our footprint and helping others do the same. 
Deconstruction and salvage not only keeps high-value 
materials in use, but can also decarbonize building material 
supply chains and create local jobs. As an example, between 
2012 and 2017, we completed various interior salvage projects 
that helped us recover over 1,000 tons of material across our 
real estate portfolio—equivalent to nearly one tenth of the total 
weight of the Eiffel Tower.
89
More recently, we put our salvage strategy to the test at the 
Moffett Federal Airfield, reclaiming high-quality lumber from 
a historic hangar for alternate use. Planetary Ventures is a 
subsidiary of Google that was created to oversee our lease of 
the historic Moffett Federal Airfield at NASA’s Ames Research 
Center in the San Francisco Bay Area. The lease includes a 
commitment to manage three historic hangars that were 
designed to house airships in the first half of the 20th century.
Despite extensive efforts to repair the hangar’s timber-frame 
structure, the building was deemed too high of a risk to remain 
in place. Rather than proceed with traditional demolition, we 
recognized the inherent value of the lumber and went the extra 
mile to carefully deconstruct the structure piece by piece. 
We worked to reclaim all salvageable lumber from the hangar, 
which yielded roughly 119,000 board feet of high-quality 
old growth Douglas fir—our most ambitious deconstruction 
operation to date.
A worker carefully dismantles the historic 
framework of Hangar 3 at Moffett Field.
41

Our multi-phase salvage and 
reuse process
Deconstruction and reuse is still an emerging practice in the 
commercial building industry, so we had to thoughtfully craft a 
strategy that addressed anticipated obstacles (Figure 13 ). 
Figure 13. 
Hangar 3’s multi-phase lumber salvage process
structural
disass embly
 
Moffett Field
Hangar 3
 
onsite
processing
 testing for
safety
 asset tagging
and tracking
 
mass timber
construction
 
showcase
installations
 
Reuse
We kicked off this unique salvage project by working with EKI 
to evaluate the suitability of the structural wood within the 
hangar for potential reuse. Once all salvageable wood was 
identified, the team proceeded with careful disassembly of 
the structure and on-site processing of all non-hazardous 
lumber. Finally, in partnership with ToxServices, we developed 
guidelines for the safe reuse of the wood. We then partnered 
with Cambium Carbon and Turner & Townsend for digital 
inventory management and asset tagging to catalog the wood 
and track it throughout the salvage process.
To ensure that the lumber was reused efficiently and 
appropriately, we prioritized on-campus installations. 
Much of the salvaged lumber is being used for mass timber 
construction at supporting office facilities on Google data 
center campuses. Mass timber provides a low-carbon 
alternative to traditional structural materials like steel 
and concrete.
Additional lumber salvaged from Hangar 3 is showcased in 
applications on various Google campuses in the San Francisco 
Bay Area. At the Moffett Park Green Link bridge on our 
Sunnyvale, California campus, salvaged wood from Hangar 3 is 
used to clad the retaining wall, providing a publicly accessible 
landmark to experience the iconic lumber.
A triple win: lower emissions, stronger 
communities, and less waste
The carbon impact from salvaged wood is immediate: it retains 
carbon while reducing the demand for energy-intensive 
new lumber.
Beyond emissions, this approach delivers community 
co-benefits. Repurposing wood supports local trades and 
celebrates community history while avoiding emissions-
intensive global supply chains. Deconstruction also captures 
value from the construction waste stream and ensures its 
diversion from landfill.
Hangar 3 is one example of how we’re implementing 
deconstruction and reuse into our real estate portfolio. We’re 
continuing to pioneer new processes to stay at the forefront of 
commercial-scale deconstruction for a more circular Google.
42

Nature on our campuses
43 Building for biodiversity: Creating thriving habitats and measuring our impact
43
Nature provides essential benefits like clean water, pollination, 
and climate stability, in addition to supporting healthy 
ecosystems. We strive to restore and enhance nature and 
biodiversity on our campuses, creating resilient urban habitats 
where nature is otherwise scarce. By bringing nature back into 
cities, we’re building spaces that can foster human connection, 
improve well-being, and support flourishing biodiversity.
Building for biodiversity: 
Creating thriving habitats and 
measuring our impact
As of the end of 2025, we created or restored over 80 acres 
of habitat on our global campuses, including over 75 acres in 
the San Francisco Bay Area. On our Bay Area campuses, we’re 
rebuilding oak woodlands and willow groves impacted by 
decades of development—reintroducing native plant species 
and creating the right conditions for wildlife to thrive. Globally, 
we’re creating native habitat hotspots in urban contexts, 
including at St. John’s Terminal in New York City, which features 
roughly 1.5 acres of native vegetation at street level, in railbed 
gardens, and on terraces.
Restoring native habitat on our campuses is a critical first step, 
but maintaining these ecosystems is an equally important 
long-term effort. We’re using science and technology to ensure 
these habitats continue to thrive. Using both expert advice 
and AI-assisted wildlife monitoring, we gather detailed data 
that informs our adaptive management—a process of actively 
restoring habitat, monitoring the results, and applying the 
learnings to future maintenance and restorations. This data-
driven approach helps us maintain more resilient habitats for 
local wildlife.
Insect and bird monitoring
Our Bay View campus in Mountain View, California, features 
over 17 acres of natural areas—including wet meadows, 
woodlands, and a marsh—designed to reestablish native 
landscapes. In 2025, we monitored insects and birds to 
ensure these restored habitats were continuing to thrive. We 
documented more than 100 bird species using our Bay View 
campus to forage, roost, and raise their young. We’ve observed 
wintering waterfowl using the open water, song sparrows 
and common yellowthroats hiding in dense marshes, cliff 
swallows gathering mud for their nests, and migratory warblers 
finding cover in riparian trees. We also monitored pollinators, 
recording a diverse array of native bees using the native 
flowering plants onsite, and bumblebee queens searching for 
nest sites in ground squirrel burrows.
Results from monitoring at Bay View and our nearby San 
Francisco Bay Area campuses show the impact of our work: 
native habitats support approximately twice as many bird 
species and pollinators as conventional sites at our campuses. 
At our New York City campus, bird monitoring also shows the 
value of onsite habitat. From fall 2023 to fall 2025, we recorded 
nearly 80 bird species using the native landscaping at St. John’s 
Terminal, including migratory birds like the indigo bunting and 
orange-crowned warbler, compared to only 10 bird species at 
nearby sites without any greening and fewer than 40 species at 
nearby sites with non-native plantings. Resident birds are using 
the habitat to breed: northern mockingbirds and American 
robins had 11 chicks on the St. John’s Terminal terraces during 
the spring and summer of 2025.

Adaptive management for low intervention and 
big impact
Our monitoring data informs landscaping best practices that can maximize 
ecological functions. For example, at Bay View, observations of seed-eating birds 
like the lesser goldfinch tell us the importance of minimizing pruning to retain 
seeds. Data on plant-pollinator interactions shows us which species do the most 
to support diverse native bees, helping us identify what to plant more of.
At St. John’s Terminal, bird monitoring found insect-eating and omnivorous 
birds using the rooftop habitat, compared to mostly grain-eating and ubiquitous 
urban birds like pigeons on roofs without habitat. This information shows the 
value of a healthy insect population on the roof, emphasizing the importance of 
avoiding pesticides and maintaining native landscaping to support insects.
We’re also making changes where monitoring data shows a need for 
improvement. Working with NYC Bird Alliance, we installed bird-safe films on 
high priority windows at two of our New York City buildings to make glass visible 
to birds and prevent collisions. Monitoring just after film installation found a 
large reduction in collisions at one of our retrofitted sites compared to non-
retrofitted locations at the same building—a promising sign that our efforts are 
saving birds.
Using technology to advance biodiversity 
monitoring
In 2025, we piloted passive acoustic monitoring for birds at Bay View, using 
AI-assisted models to identify bird species from audio data alongside more 
traditional expert-led monitoring. This approach will allow us to collect audio 
data continuously throughout the day and across seasons.
The passive devices recorded 69 bird species, including 22 species that the 
human surveyor didn’t see, such as nocturnal great-horned owls. Meanwhile, 
another 36 species were recorded by the human surveyor but missed by the 
passive devices, such as quiet ruddy ducks and northern shovelers. Combining 
passively collected data with human observation can provide ongoing feedback 
on management and habitat quality. Going forward, we’re planning to expand 
this pilot, using technology to scale high-value biodiversity monitoring.
Flying over open water at our Bay 
View campus, a black-necked 
stilt represents just one of the 
many shorebird and wintering 
waterfowl species that rely on 
this habitat (Photo credit: Rick 
Miskiv).
44

Consumer hardware devices 
45 Pixel 10: Engineering for longevity and circularity
47 Learnings from Vi ệt Nam: Assessing biological ecosystems in consumer electronics supply chains
Our circular economy strategy for consumer hardware is rooted in maximizing 
the value of every material we use. We engineer products for longevity, embed 
recycled content, and drive emissions reductions across our hardware supply 
chain—creating lasting value for people while protecting the ecosystems that 
sustain our operations.
Pixel 10: Engineering for longevity and 
circularity
Since launching our first consumer hardware devices a decade ago, we’ve set 
out to integrate sustainability into every aspect of our devices—from how we 
source our materials, engineer and package our products, operate our supply 
chain, and design our retail stores. While designing hardware for both people 
and the planet is a complex journey, we’re making consistent progress. Our 
latest series—the Pixel 10—showcases the best of our three-pillar approach: 
engineering products to last, designing intentionally with responsible materials, 
and advancing collective progress through sharing.
Engineering our products to last
We’ve built the Pixel 10 series to last, reducing the need for replacement. 
To make sure your phone stays useful, we provide seven years of OS and 
security updates. Pixel 10 Pro is also carefully crafted to handle everyday 
drops, scratches, spills, and dust with aluminum and Corning® Gorilla® Glass 
Victus® 2.
90
Beyond phones, Pixel Watch 4 offers robust protection with water resistance 
to 50 meters
91 and a redesigned process for display and battery replacement 
so you’ll have options for fixing or replacing parts. These improvements helped 
Pixel Watch 4 earn a 9 out of 10 repairability score from iFixit, which declared it 
the most repairable smartwatch on the market.
We’re extending the life of our 
devices like the Pixel through 
accessible repair.
45

Designing intentionally with 
responsible materials
Great design is circular, so we’ve been striving to expand our 
portfolio of recycled ingredients across our devices since 
2015 (Figure 14). While exact percentages and applications 
vary across products, our goal is to maximize recycled content 
everywhere possible.
Figure 14. 
A decade of recycled materials progress
2015 2016
Recycled 
copper
Recycled 
gold
Recycled 
tungsten
Recycled 
cobalt
Recycled 
tin
Recycled rare 
earth elements
Recycled 
stainless steel
Recycled 
glass
Recycled 
aluminum
Recycled 
yarn
Recycled 
plastics
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
We’re proud that the Pixel 10 series is made with the most 
recycled content of any Pixel phone generation yet.
92 In fact, 
Pixel 10a is made with at least 36% recycled materials. 93 We 
introduced recycled aluminum in the enclosure of Pixel 5 
in 2020 and, since Pixel 6, the aluminum in the enclosure of 
all Pixel phones—through Pixel 10 series—has been made 
with 100% recycled aluminum. 94 This singular intervention 
reduces the carbon footprint of the aluminum portion of 
the phone’s enclosures by at least 35% compared to 100% 
primary aluminum.
95
Our focus on high-impact materials is central to our strategy to 
embed recycled content throughout our devices. For example, 
Pixel 10 Pro is made with at least 30% recycled materials, 
including recycled plastic, aluminum, glass, and rare earth 
elements.
96 For the first time, the device also features recycled 
cobalt, copper, gold, and tungsten. 97
Using responsible materials also means that we restrict 
many hazardous substances through our Restricted 
Substances Specification . Beyond that, we’re collaborating 
with ChemFORWARD to commission chemical hazard 
assessments that populate the shared Data Trust , expanding 
the industry’s knowledge beyond regulated chemicals and 
46

helping organizations find alternatives to hazardous substances. In 2025, 
Google commissioned 125 chemical hazard assessments, making a total of 321 
assessments commissioned from 2019 to 2025. These assessments help inform 
the material choices that we, and others, make when designing our products.
Advancing collective progress through sharing
Collaboration is key to advancing sustainability, and we’re committed to sharing 
our progress to help fuel industry-wide change. Examples include:
• Our Consumer Hardware Carbon Reduction Guide shares our approach 
to reducing the carbon footprint of our consumer hardware, empowering 
others who want to evolve their reporting-focused carbon functions to also 
include carbon-aware design and operation.
• Our Plastic-Free Packaging Design Guide includes insights from Google’s 
design, engineering, and operations efforts to create plastic-free packaging 
that’s more easily recycled.
• Our Recycled Materials Guide details insights from our engineering, design, 
and operations efforts to integrate recycled materials—including plastics, 
aluminum, stainless steel, cobalt, copper, gold, tin, tungsten, and rare earth 
elements—into electronics.
At Google, we’re proving that high quality and environmental responsibility 
can go hand in hand. By engineering our devices to last longer, ditching plastic 
packaging, and making repairs simpler than ever, we’re moving toward a more 
circular future. By using recycled components and extending product lifespans, 
we’re reducing waste and making sure you get the most out of your devices.
Learnings from Việt Nam: Assessing 
biological ecosystems in consumer 
electronics supply chains
Ecosystem services are the essential benefits nature provides, such as clean 
water, clean air, pollination, disease resistance, climate stability, the raw 
materials to make products, and more. These services are not only vital for 
human life, they also underpin supply chains. Yet measuring their complexity 
is notoriously difficult, as global data often lacks the local, actionable detail 
needed to mitigate negative ecosystem impacts.
Since launching our first devices, 
we’ve worked to improve the 
sustainability of how we make 
our products and the services we 
create around them.
47

A new methodology for measuring 
ecosystem impact
To bridge the data gap, we’ve detailed a new approach that 
combines broad geospatial analysis with site-specific, ground-
truth assessments, enabling us to measure and manage 
ecosystem impacts within our consumer electronics supply 
chain. We’re sharing this methodology—found in our case 
study on Northern Vi ệt Nam—to provide a repeatable model 
that can help other businesses protect the natural world.
To achieve this, we use a two-part methodology to get a 
holistic view of ecosystem health within a supply chain. We 
augment the NGIS TraceMark platform, which uses Google 
Earth Engine and Google Cloud, to analyze large-scale 
datasets for ecosystem conditions. We then couple this with 
insights from local experts who identify species of ecological, 
economic, and cultural significance to that local community—
enabling actionable, site-specific intervention for these 
“focal species.”
Northern Việt Nam pilot
In 2025, we piloted this approach in the Red River Delta of 
Northern Việt Nam, a region vital for both biodiversity and 
electronics manufacturing. Working with local experts helped 
us focus on focal species important to the local community 
that survive in human-developed areas. This led to a new 
species cohort-based approach for conservation: Rather than 
focusing on a single endangered species, we can now address 
the needs of many locally important species simultaneously.
This pilot identified mitigation opportunities for approximately 
200 local species. We found that 39% of these species could 
benefit from water-related interventions, while 31% would be 
helped by better nesting habitats. We’re now working with 
factory owners to support these efforts and have completed 
assessments in additional sites in India and Taiwan. It’s a 
practical way to turn technical data into real-world protection 
for local wildlife.
Our work on this topic has led to a compelling finding: even 
highly industrialized sites can support a surprising number 
of species. This means that biodiversity programs—such as 
habitat restoration or local species protection—don’t have 
to be isolated projects; they can be a core part of consumer 
electronics supply chain engagement. And beyond the 
environmental impact, these efforts may offer co-benefits like 
improved worker wellbeing and better operational resilience to 
extreme weather.
By open-sourcing this approach, we hope to help the entire 
industry move toward industrial-scale conservation—not just 
on remote lands, but right inside industrial zones.
48
Sunset over Northern Vi ệt Nam, where we’re piloting new methodologies to assess and 
protect local biological ecosystems within our supply chain (Photo credit: Jessica Li).

AI solutions
49
50 Mitigating high-impact sectors
59 Extreme weather and 
crisis resilience
65 Protecting the planet
AI opens new possibilities for improving the quality 
of life for people around the world. From increasing 
industrial efficiency, to monitoring air quality, to protecting 
communities from natural disasters—AI can serve as a force 
multiplier in addressing some of the world’s most pressing 
environmental challenges.
Applying AI to our understanding of the planet represents one of our most 
impactful opportunities. That’s why we launched Google Earth AI , a collection 
of geospatial tools, datasets, and AI models designed for deep planetary 
intelligence. Through Earth AI, we’re unifying remote sensing data with cutting-
edge AI for diverse geospatial analysis and forecasting—from land use to object 
detection—and we’re delivering actionable weather and climate insights. This 
includes our work on AlphaEarth Foundations , AnthroKrishi
98 APIs, ForestCast, 
NeuralGCM and MetNet models, WeatherNext, and Contrails, as well as various 
crisis resilience solutions across wildfire detection, tropical cyclone modeling , 
and flood forecasting . By providing advanced technical infrastructure, Earth 
AI empowers businesses, communities, and nonprofits to address the planet’s 
most pressing environmental and humanitarian needs.
But success will require focused effort to ensure that AI has a net-positive 
impact on the environment and the people and communities who depend on it. 
We’re still at the beginning of our journey to unlock AI’s environmental potential, 
but the following stories point the way to an exciting future where AI enables 
efficiencies and opportunities across a wide range of industry sectors and 
natural systems, creating benefits for people and the planet at a global scale.

Mitigating high-impact sectors
50 1 gigaton aspiration: Enabling others to mitigate climate change at scale
54 Harvesting innovation: Accelerating a more resilient agriculture future
57 Smarter flight paths: Scaling contrail avoidance in Europe
50
Our unique opportunity to help people and protect the planet 
extends beyond reducing the environmental footprint of our 
own operations. By organizing information about the world 
and making it actionable through our technology, we’re giving 
others the information they need to mitigate carbon emissions 
at a global scale.
With products used by billions of people, we’re uniquely 
positioned to turn individual intent into collective impact. For 
the past four years, we’ve provided information to over 1 billion 
users annually to help them make more sustainable choices 
through our products.
99
We’re directing our technology toward the highest-emitting 
sectors—including energy, transportation, and agriculture—
with tools that do everything from predicting contrail formation 
to mapping long-term agricultural resilience.
1 gigaton aspiration: Enabling 
others to mitigate climate 
change at scale
We aspire to help individuals, cities, and other partners 
collectively reduce 1 gigaton (GT) of their carbon equivalent 
emissions annually by 2030. To put the scale of this aspiration 
into perspective, 1 GT is comparable to the annual emissions 
of Japan.
100
This monumental opportunity represents one of the most 
consequential environmental contributions Google can 
help make for the planet. In contrast to managing our own 
operational carbon footprint, this effort is a way for us to 
use our unique technological capabilities, state-of-the-art 
AI research, and global reach to inspire and enable others 
to mitigate climate change. These solutions also provide 
co-benefits that improve people’s daily lives—from saving 
drivers money on fuel to reducing city congestion.
Our role in enabling users and partners to reduce emissions 
takes many forms, with the degree of our contribution varying 
depending on the technology. In some cases, we act as a direct 
enabler where reductions depend on Google’s technology, like 
with Nest thermostats, fuel-efficient routing in Google Maps, 
or Green Light. For other solutions, we provide actionable data 
that guides decision-making, as with our Solar API or the work 
of Ignite Energy Access. While these solutions don’t reduce 
emissions themselves, they’re essential to carbon-reducing 
action. Lastly, some technologies act as broader catalysts 
for change. A prime example is Google Earth Engine, which 
provides the geospatial data necessary for diverse actions—
from identifying deforestation risks to selecting sites for clean 
energy projects.
Below, we share how we’re enabling others to reduce 
emissions in energy and transportation, along with examples 
from additional sectors where our carbon impact estimation 
is ongoing. Regardless of how we help, for every solution 
included in the estimate of our impact, we ensure our 
contribution is sufficiently significant to the real-world 
emission-reducing action, following our published principles.
While many of our solutions help users and partners take 
climate action, we’ve estimated the specific impact for nine 
solutions so far. We estimate nine solutions helped individuals, 
cities, and partners collectively reduce 41 million tCO
2e in 2025

(Figure 15).101 This is roughly equivalent to the emissions from 
the annual electricity use of over 8.5 million U.S. homes. 102 For 
context, that’s roughly three times Google’s total ambition-
based emissions, which were approximately 14.5 million tCO 2e 
in 2025.103
Figure 15.
Emissions reductions enabled by Google products
27.8M tCO2e
Nest thermostats
8.8M tCO2e
Solar API
1.3M tCO2e
Ignite Energy Access
280K tCO2e
Energy
Alternative 
route suggestions 
in Google Maps
75K tCO2e
Waymo
18K tCO2
Green Light
13K tCO2e
Contrails
3K tCO2ein Google Maps
3M tCO2e
Transportation
Fuel-efficient routing
Google Earth
51
Energy
By providing AI-driven insights, we aim to enable everyone—
from homeowners to utility providers—to accelerate clean 
power deployment and advance energy efficiency.
Google Earth
Google Earth helps solar and wind developers accelerate 
clean energy project development by evaluating potential 
sites and streamlining site design and construction estimates. 
The platform’s ability to overlay datasets like flood plains, 
habitat information, and topography, combined with historical 
imagery, allows developers to identify potential constraints and 
op
timize layouts efficiently and cost-effectively. By supporting 
the siting and design of clean energy projects, we estimate that 
Google Earth helped enable our partners to reduce over 27.8 
million tCO
2e in the United States in 2025.104
Nest thermostats
For over a decade, our Nest thermostats have used machine 
learning to help people save energy and money at home by 
automatically adjusting temperatures based on habits and 
preferences. We estimate that, in 2025 alone, Nest thermostats 
helped customers save more than 28 billion kWh of energy,
105 
enabling over 8.8 million tCO 2e reductions.106 These small, 
automated changes create a massive collective impact over 
time. We estimate that Nest thermostats helped customers 
cumulatively save more than 190 billion kWh of energy from 
2011 to 2025,
107 which is more than the total annual electricity 
consumption of Malaysia.108

Solar API
Google’s Solar API uses AI to transform high-resolution aerial 
imagery into precise 3D rooftop models, calculating shading 
from nearby structures and trees to determine optimal solar 
placement. With solar information available for more than 650 
million buildings,
109 this tool is used globally by solar installers, 
city planners, and energy companies to target rooftops with the 
highest potential and generate permit-ready designs without 
costly site visits. We estimate that our partners in the United 
States used Solar API to enable over 1.3 million tCO
2e reductions 
in 2025,110 while simultaneously helping companies scale their 
operations and create new jobs in the clean energy sector.
Ignite Energy Access, a Startups for Sustainable 
Development partner
Millions of people across Sub-Saharan Africa still lack access to 
reliable, affordable electricity, often relying on carbon-intensive 
fuels for basic energy needs. Through Google’s Startups for 
Sustainable Development , we’re partnering with Ignite Energy 
Access—a leading developer and distributed renewable energy 
provider—to scale solar power across the continent. We’ve 
developed a machine learning model using high-resolution 
satellite imagery that identifies small-scale solar panels, helping 
us map and accelerate energy deployment. While ground-truth 
validation remains a challenge, we’re working with Ignite Energy 
Access to pilot logistics optimization tools that streamline the 
delivery of solar devices in rural areas. Having delivered 2.5 
million solar devices across the region by the end of 2025, Ignite 
Energy Access is now working to deploy an additional 1 million 
Distributed Renewable Energy solutions in 2026 with support 
from Google. We estimate that our partnership with Ignite Energy 
Access enabled over 280,000 tCO
2e reductions in 2025.111
Transportation
By offering insights into lower-carbon alternatives, we’re 
empowering travelers, passengers, and pilots alike to choose 
more sustainable routes , whether across town or across 
the planet.
Fuel-efficient routing
With Google Maps, we’ve taken the guesswork out of how to 
drive more efficiently by suggesting the route that gets you to 
your destination in roughly the same time while optimizing fuel 
or energy use and saving money. Here’s how it works: our AI 
models analyze factors like your vehicle’s engine type, real-
time traffic, and road conditions to pick the most fuel-efficient 
path. We estimate that fuel-efficient routing enabled over 3 
million tCO
2e reductions in 2025112—equivalent to taking roughly 
700,000 gasoline-powered cars off the road for a year.113
Alternative route suggestions in Google Maps
Alternative route suggestions in Google Maps are empowering 
individuals in cities to make small, consistent changes that can 
lead to substantial collective impact. The feature shows options 
for walking or taking public transportation when these modes 
are just as fast, if not faster, and are more cost-effective 
than driving (Figure 16). By sharing lower-carbon options with 
users, this feature can reduce both emissions and urban traffic 
congestion. We estimate that alternative route suggestions in 
Google Maps empowered people to shift over 180 million trips 
from driving to lower-carbon options in 2025,
114 enabling over 
75,000 tCO2e reductions.115
Figure 16. 
Alternative route suggestions
In Google Maps, alternative routes appear as 
suggestions to “also consider.”
Also consider
26 min 4 min A E
Also consider
26 min 4 min A E
52

Waymo
Alphabet’s Waymo is a leader in autonomous electric mobility, demonstrating 
how AI can make transportation safer and more sustainable . Committed to 
being the most trusted driver for all road users, Waymo aims to empower 
everyone to move sustainably by expanding access to shared electric vehicles 
and fostering more walkable, bikeable, and transit-rich communities. Waymo 
is committed to driving real progress toward Vision Zero —the global mission 
to eliminate traffic fatalities and serious injuries, which disproportionately 
impact pedestrians and bicyclists. The impact is already measurable: in the 
communities it serves, Waymo has demonstrated 92% fewer pedestrian injury 
crashes and an 85% reduction in those involving cyclists.
116 By expanding access 
to electric vehicles, we estimate that Waymo’s shared, autonomous, electric 
fleet enabled its riders to reduce over 18,000 tCO2 in 2025.117
Green Light
Green Light uses AI and Google Maps driving trends to optimize traffic light 
timing, ensuring drivers experience less stop-and-go traffic. From the project’s 
start in 2022 through 2025, Green Light has shared recommendations for 
roughly 540 signalized intersections globally—about 420 of which were 
added in 2025 alone—helping optimize traffic flow at intersections crossed 
by approximately 220 million vehicles every month.
118 In 2025, city partners 
implemented Green Light recommendations at a scale that achieved critical 
density in major urban centers, like successfully optimizing around 10% of all 
intersections in Boston , Monterrey, and Bangkok. We estimate that Green Light 
enabled over 13,000 tCO
2e reductions in 2025119—and we expect even greater 
impact as we continue to expand Green Light to hundreds of cities over the next 
few years. Beyond enabling emissions reductions, these improvements also 
ease urban congestion and lower local pollution—improving resident health and 
creating more livable, efficient cities.
Contrails
While air travel connects the world, it can also leave behind contrails—the thin, 
white clouds that trap heat in our atmosphere. Predicting contrail formation 
is a complex atmospheric challenge. We’re supporting airlines by providing 
AI predictions for where these heat-trapping clouds will form, so they can 
make slight altitude adjustments to navigate around sensitive areas without 
compromising safety or significantly increasing fuel use. We estimate that the 
contrail avoidance enabled by this model reduced approximately 3,000 tCO
2e 
in 2025.120 Refer to Smarter flight paths: Scaling contrail avoidance in Europe to 
learn more about how we’re mitigating warming from contrails.
A Waymo vehicle yielding to 
pedestrians at a crosswalk in San 
Francisco, California.
53

Additional sectors
While energy and transportation remain our primary areas of 
focus as two of the highest-emitting sectors,121 they aren’t the 
only areas we’re supporting with our products. Nature-based 
solutions, from sustainable agriculture to wildfire detection, 
represent other critical avenues for mitigating climate change. 
While we haven’t yet quantified enabled emissions reductions 
from these, Google’s tools and technologies being used by 
others to mitigate emissions in these areas are incredibly 
impactful. Ultimately, our 1 GT aspiration is designed to inspire 
others to drive broader change—which includes sharing 
examples of our mitigation tools and technologies even as we 
continue the rigorous work of quantifying their impact.
In agriculture, we’re using AI to transform vast, complex 
datasets into actionable insights that help partners identify 
which solution will work best for their local environment. 
By providing tools like the AlphaEarth Foundations and 
AnthroKrishi APIs, we help partners identify more sustainable, 
resilient practices. Refer to Harvesting innovation: Accelerating 
a more resilient agriculture future to learn more about 
how we’re supporting agricultural solutions that mitigate 
climate change.
Our work in wildfire detection reached a critical milestone in 
2025 with the launch of the first FireSat proto-satellite. FireSat 
will enable rapid intervention before small fires escalate into 
“megafires” that release massive amounts of carbon. When the 
full satellite constellation is operational in the coming years, 
it’ll provide global high-resolution imagery updated every 20 
minutes, enabling the detection of wildfires roughly the size of 
a classroom.
From aspiration to impact
Reaching a gigaton of enabled emissions reductions is a 
massive undertaking, and estimating the emissions we help 
others reduce is inherently difficult and imprecise—which 
is why we apply a robust and credible methodology for 
estimating progress.
We expect the path ahead to be non-linear. Nascent solutions 
often require years of development before achieving global 
impact. Take fuel-efficient routing in Google Maps: launched 
initially in the United States in 2021, we continued developing 
and adapting it for international markets before reaching 
worldwide availability in early 2025.
Since setting our 1 GT aspiration in 2020, we’ve learned a lot 
and remain both humbled and motivated by the scale of the 
work ahead. We continue to navigate significant industry 
hurdles, such as a lack of high-quality data in certain sectors 
and a lack of scientific consensus on measuring impact. We 
also faced a setback with the loss of MethaneSAT , which was 
expected to be a core contributor to our roadmap.
Although our impact is increasing year-over-year, bridging the 
remaining gap to 1 GT requires both the scaling of early-stage 
technology and the maturation of industry measurements 
across high-impact sectors. However, we aren’t letting these 
long-term challenges or measurement complexities stall our 
progress, and we remain focused on immediate actions that 
can help people and partners today. This includes investing in 
platforms like Google Earth Engine and Jurisdictional REDD+ to 
improve transparency across the industry.
Looking ahead, we hope to expand products that help 
developers accelerate clean energy deployment—with a 
specific focus on the Asia-Pacific region—while also working 
to secure funding to bring FireSat to fruition and providing 
technical frameworks and research to inform contrail 
avoidance around the world. These are just some of the 
building blocks of the systemic change needed to turn early-
stage solutions for our partners into global impact.
Harvesting innovation: 
Accelerating a more resilient 
agriculture future
Agriculture is vital for human well-being, but the industry 
faces a difficult reality: it’s a significant contributor to 
global emissions and is highly vulnerable to climate change. 
Potential solutions range from reducing food loss and waste 
to optimizing fertilizer use, improving irrigation, or adopting 
54

new crop breeds. While there’s no silver bullet, we know that the most effective 
approaches will look different in every region.
We’re using AI to process complex information and share specific insights that 
help partners identify which of these solutions will work best for their local 
environment. By turning vast datasets into tools like AlphaEarth Foundations 
and AnthroKrishi APIs, we support a more sustainable, resilient future for global 
food production.
Mapping our planet in unprecedented detail with 
AlphaEarth Foundations
Accurately mapping agricultural land at scale is a massive technical challenge, 
but it’s essential for building a more climate-resilient food system. AI and 
geospatial technologies are now giving scientists the tools they need to tackle 
this and other urgent sustainability challenges.
AlphaEarth Foundations —a part of Earth AI—is an AI model that functions like a 
virtual satellite. It integrates petabytes of Earth observation data covering the 
planet’s terrestrial land and coastal waters into unified digital representations—
or “embeddings”—that computer systems can easily process. When we provide 
scientists with a more complete and consistent picture of our planet’s evolution, 
they can make more informed decisions on critical issues like food security, 
deforestation, urban expansion, and water resources.
Our collection of annual embeddings is already empowering organizations 
worldwide to create powerful custom maps that classify unmapped ecosystems 
and track environmental changes—all with increased speed and accuracy.
When applied to agricultural challenges, this data allows the agricultural sector 
to map land use and crop patterns with speed and precision. In 2025, the 
United States Department of Agriculture published its first Hawaii Cropland 
Data Layer using this model. The technology’s applications extend to forest 
carbon monitoring and research on corn and soybean agriculture . And in 
Brazil, MapBiomas is testing the dataset to incorporate improvements in the 
monitoring of land cover and land use change and its impacts on agricultural 
and environmental changes across the country.
Granular maps created with these embeddings inform smarter land-
management strategies and sustainable development initiatives. Providing 
this detail at scale makes sustainable agriculture and climate mitigation more 
accessible, efficient, and effective.
A false-color geospatial 
embedding field from 
AlphaEarth Foundations 
showing land-use plots and 
circular center-pivot irrigation 
fields along a winding river.
55

Empowering farmers with AI-powered 
agricultural tools
While AlphaEarth provides the broad landscape data needed 
for regional strategies, transforming global food systems also 
requires insights at the individual field level. But agricultural 
landscapes, especially in the Global South, are complex; a 
single small area may contain crops, trees, and water storage. 
Analysts need to digitize and monitor activity at the field level 
to enable data-driven decisions—a challenge our AnthroKrishi 
models solve.
Our first model , the Agricultural Landscape Understanding 
(ALU) API, uses high-resolution imagery and machine learning 
to accurately draw boundaries down to one-meter resolution. 
The model is able to identify every farm field, map its 
boundaries, and calculate its size. Similarly, it can identify other 
landscapes as well, such as water bodies and trees. As of early 
2026, the ALU API has become the most accessed machine-
generated data layer on Google Earth since its launch in 2024.
Built on top of ALU, our second model , the Agricultural 
Monitoring & Event Detection (AMED) API, uses high-frequency 
public satellite imagery to monitor events like sowing and 
harvesting at a 15-day cadence ( Figure 17).
Figure 17.
Agricultural Monitoring and Event Detection (AMED)
Historical and current in-season crop monitoring via the AMED API shows predicted crop labels in chronological seasons at 
the field level.
56
What began as a groundbreaking initiative in India is now 
expanding to vital farmlands across Japan and Southeast 
Asia (including Malaysia, Vietnam, and Indonesia). One such 
example is our partnership with CarbonFarm, where we’re 
advancing methane mitigation in rice farming through satellite-
based monitoring, reporting, and verification. By improving 
how sustainable rice practices are tracked and emissions 
reductions are quantified, this partnership can help create 
pathways for farmers to access carbon finance and build more 
resilient livelihoods.

Refer to Preparing for wind and rain: Using AI to simulate monsoons and 
global precipitation to learn how our AI-powered monsoon forecasting 
helped Indian farmers make better planting decisions with weeks of 
lead time.
Smarter flight paths: Scaling contrail 
avoidance in Europe
Contrails—the thin streaks of condensation behind airplanes—trap heat in 
the atmosphere and account for roughly 35% of the global warming impact 
from flying.
122 To address this, we use AI to predict where contrails are likely to 
form. In our most recent study, Google’s AI contrail forecasts were integrated 
into American Airlines flight planning software and used in a trial of 2,400 
transatlantic flights that were part of the airline’s standard schedule. For the 
flights that successfully flew the contrail avoidance plans, there was a 62% 
reduction in contrail formation rate compared to the control group.
123 By 
providing the data needed to fly slightly above or below humid air pockets, we’re 
helping the aviation industry meaningfully reduce its climate footprint.
Partnering with air navigation service providers 
for systemic impact
Having proven contrail avoidance technology’s potential through years of 
development and successful flight trials , the next step was moving from 
airline-specific successes to industry-wide adoption. In 2025, we reached a 
major milestone by expanding our focus to the management of entire airspaces 
through direct partnerships with air navigation service providers.
As a primary example, we joined forces with EUROCONTROL’s Maastricht Upper 
Area Control Centre (MUAC), which manages the upper airspace over Belgium, 
the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and northwest Germany. Because MUAC holds 
centralized routing authority over dense, complex airspaces, this partnership 
enables the wide-scale application of Google’s AI predictions where they’re 
needed most. By using our predictive models integrated directly into MUAC’s air 
traffic control systems, controllers can seamlessly advise pilots on minor fuel-
efficient altitude adjustments (Figure 18).
We’re using AI and satellite 
imagery to help airlines 
predict and navigate around 
contrail-forming zones, 
helping to reduce the aviation 
industry’s climate impact.
57

Figure 18. 
Contrail predictions
Real-time contrail prediction and flight monitoring dashboard developed by MUAC integrating Google forecasts (on 
September 5, 2025).
124
Legend
 Contrail forecast regions: Areas with 
high probability of contrail formation 
 Flight sectors: MUAC-defined airspaces where air traffic controllers may
suggest altitude adjustments based on our forecasts to avoid contrail formation 
58
Our success in Europe’s busiest skies proves this technology 
is ready for the world. We’re now scaling this blueprint by 
expanding our partnerships with global airlines and air traffic 
services. And beyond the cockpit, we’re focused on the policy 
and science needed to make this a global standard, including 
advancing key research to help establish contrail warming 
measurement and verification standards.
This multipronged effort focuses on immediate operational 
efficiencies that empower the industry to deliver massive 
near-term climate impact. While longer-term solutions like 
sustainable aviation fuel continue to scale, AI is already proving 
its net-positive potential from the flight deck: The compute 
emissions from our contrails model were approximately 
380 tCO
2e in 2025,125 while the contrail avoidance it enabled 
reduced approximately 3,000 tCO 2e.126 This means the 
environmental benefit was over seven times greater than 
the model’s environmental cost. These small shifts in how we 
fly today are creating a clearer path for the future of flight 
for everyone.

Extreme weather and crisis resilience
59 Our hope for adaptation: No one is surprised by a natural disaster
62 Anticipating the surge: Supporting better tropical cyclone prediction with AI
63 Preparing for wind and rain: Using AI to simulate monsoons and global precipitation
59
Extreme weather reached a critical inflection point in 2025. As 
one of the three warmest years on record, it was defined by 
“mega-disasters”—from wildfires in North America to historic 
flooding in Europe and record heat affecting 770 million people 
across Asia.
127
Communities need help strengthening their resilience to the 
changing planet. By combining novel research with engineering 
innovation and global reach, we’re building tools that help 
people around the world prepare for future impacts while 
managing the environmental crises of today.
We’re meeting this challenge by integrating AI-powered 
forecasting with global partnerships, providing the advanced 
technologies necessary for early warning and disaster alerts. 
By scaling flood forecasting to around 150 countries, enabling 
real-time wildfire detection, or developing models for tropical 
cyclones and monsoons, we’re helping communities move 
from simply reacting to crises to actively anticipating them.
Bridging the gap between AI models and real-world response 
gives communities the information they need to act quickly and 
stay out of harm’s way. Beyond providing helpful information, 
we’re also supporting humanitarian response efforts. We work 
closely with community leaders globally to provide funding 
for immediate relief and long-term recovery following major 
disasters. For example, in response to the Los Angeles Wildfires 
in 2025, we provided $15 million to support local communities .
Our hope for adaptation: 
No one is surprised by a 
natural disaster
Our mission is to make information accessible and useful, and 
nowhere is this more vital than during a crisis. With Americans 
enduring a major billion-dollar weather or climate disaster 
every 10 days in 2025,
128 these events are a widespread and 
growing reality—making timely data a prerequisite for safety.
We want to enable a world where no one is surprised by a 
natural disaster. To work toward this pursuit, we’re focused on 
accurately predicting natural disasters to keep as many people 
as possible safe. The need for this support is staggering: in 
2025, Google helped connect people with crisis information for 
natural disasters and other types of crises over 10 million times 
per day, on average.
129
Our crisis resilience solutions provide actionable information 
on weather and extreme events to help people stay safe. 
Below are just a few examples of how we’re helping to reduce 
surprises through flood forecasting, wildfire mapping and 
modeling, and weather nowcasting.

Flood forecasting
Floods are one of the most common types of natural disaster. 
That’s why we’re using our technology to provide information 
that can help people prepare for these events. In 2025, we 
generated more than 570 crisis alerts on Google Search 
that shared critical flood information, including mappings of 
estimated flooded areas, which were viewed by nearly 30 
million users.
We also developed Flood Hub, which displays forecasts 
for riverine floods up to seven days in advance using a 
breakthrough global hydrological AI model (Figure 19 ). As of 
2025, our flood forecasting information covers more than two 
billion people in around 150 countries for the most significant 
and impactful riverine flood events.
130
Figure 19. 
Flood Hub view showing coverage for riverine floods
More recently, in 2026, we added urban flash flood forecasts 
to Flood Hub. With a new AI-powered methodology , we can 
predict the risk of flash floods in urban areas up to 24 hours 
in advance. We focused our initial launch on urban areas and 
are actively working to improve the model’s generalization 
to rural areas, reduce the spatial resolution for more hyper-
local forecasts, and integrate even more real-time weather 
data sources.
Wildfire mapping and modeling
Our AI-powered wildfire boundary tracking tool uses satellite 
data to create fire maps in countries around the world. We 
refresh these fire maps as frequently as every 15 to 20 minutes 
in select regions, and at least every 12 hours elsewhere, 
offering an up-to-date picture of an existing fire’s spread. 
These updates appear in Google Search, Google Maps, and 
push notifications sent to nearby users. In 2025, we generated 
more than 520 crisis alerts on Google Search that provided 
timely wildfire information to over 75 million users around the 
world. As one example, this critical information helped Chilean 
families and emergency responders navigate dangerous forest 
fires in January 2026.
60

We’re also working to detect wildfires faster, before they 
become devastating blazes, and provide better information 
as they unfold. That’s the idea behind FireSat, a partner-driven 
initiative led by the Earth Fire Alliance in partnership with Muon 
Space and Google Research, which uses high-resolution 
infrared satellite imagery and applied AI to provide near real-
time insights on wildfires. The Earth Fire Alliance in partnership 
with Muon Space launched the first proto-satellite in early 
2025, with plans for three to be deployed in 2026, for a total 
of more than 50 satellites in the years to come. Once fully 
operational, the program will provide near real-time data on 
the location, size, and intensity of all wildfires on Earth.
There’s been a lot of excitement around this data. For example, 
a national research organization in Australia is preparing to use 
FireSat data to improve detection, tracking, and responding to 
bushfires (Figure 20). And in 2025, Muon Space released the 
first images from this satellite, demonstrating how the satellites 
will detect thermal signatures from space.
Figure 20. 
First images of wildfires detected by FireSat
Multiple active fires were detected 
near Borroloola, Northern Territory, 
Australia, on July 11, 2025. FireSat’s 
Mid-Wave Infrared (MWIR) channel 
identified a number of active 
fire areas and burning fire fronts 
scattered throughout the region. 
Both the MWIR and Long-Wave 
Infrared (LWIR) channels reveal 
variations in surface temperatures 
across the landscape, providing 
environmental context alongside 
precise fire detection (Photo 
credit: Muon Space and Earth 
Fire Alliance).
Through the AI Collaborative: Wildfires , Google.org is 
facilitating a cross-sector initiative harnessing AI to transform 
how the world prepares for and responds to wildfires. By 
coordinating funding and enabling organizations to integrate 
emerging technology and on-the-ground applications, we’re 
equipping collaborators with the tools they need to identify 
and track wildfires in near real time, quantify wildfire risk, 
and reduce damages from catastrophic wildfires. As of 
2025, Google.org has contributed more than $35 million to 
the AI Collaborative: Wildfires. This funding has supported 
organizations such as Watch Duty—a trusted source of vital 
information during the Los Angeles wildfires in 2025—and the 
Woodwell Climate Research Center, which supports wildfire 
research around the world including in northern boreal forests 
and in the Amazon.
As we continue to expand these solutions, our objective remains 
clear: to put potentially life-saving data into the hands of those 
who need it most as early as possible, ensuring that even in a 
changing climate, no one is surprised or left unprepared.
61

Anticipating the surge: 
Supporting better tropical 
cyclone prediction with AI
Tropical cyclones—also known as typhoons or hurricanes—
are extremely dangerous storms, endangering lives and 
devastating communities in their wake. And during the 50-year 
period since 1970, they’ve caused $1.4 trillion in economic 
losses.
131 Predicting where a cyclone will hit is difficult, but 
predicting how strong it’ll be is even harder.
In 2025, we launched Weather Lab , an interactive website 
for sharing our AI weather models, including our latest 
experimental tropical cyclone model . This model can predict 
a cyclone’s formation, track, intensity, size, and shape—
generating 50 possible scenarios, up to 15 days ahead of time 
(Figure 21).
Figure 21. 
Cyclone Alfred prediction
Our model’s prediction for Cyclone Alfred when it was a Category 3 cyclone in the Coral Sea off the northeast coast of Australia.
Modeling in action
We partnered with the U.S. National Hurricane Center (NHC), 
along with other organizations and advisors, to both validate 
our approach and outputs and to support their forecasts 
and warnings during the 2025 cyclone season. Our model’s 
predictions helped the NHC forecast the intensity of Hurricane 
Melissa, the Category 5 hurricane that struck Jamaica in 
October 2025. NHC noted that the Google DeepMind model 
along with National Weather Service regional hurricane 
models increased forecaster confidence in predicting rapid 
intensification at unusually long lead times.
132 The historic 
forecast was the first time the NHC accurately predicted a 
storm would become a Category 5 cyclone at its Category 
1 genesis.133
Earlier predictions for these types of hazards can give crisis 
responders more time to prepare, which can save lives and 
reduce economic loss. Our current models are closing critical 
information gaps, and we’re refining these tools to ensure 
all communities have the data they need to prepare for 
tropical storms.
62

Preparing for wind and rain: 
Using AI to simulate monsoons 
and global precipitation
Monsoons—seasonal wind pattern shifts that trigger heavy 
rainfall across tropical regions—present a forecasting 
challenge that’s lasted over a century. Because these 
chaotic atmospheric systems are hypersensitive to minute 
changes, long-term forecasting has remained elusive. This 
unpredictability can create a critical information gap for 
millions of people whose livelihoods depend on the reliability of 
seasonal rains.
AI is now bridging this gap. NeuralGCM—an open-source 
model developed by Google Research—combines traditional 
physics-based modeling with machine learning to simulate 
Earth’s atmosphere with unprecedented speed and precision. 
By training NeuralGCM directly on satellite observations, we’ve 
achieved more accurate precipitation simulations . Notably, 
the model excels at predicting extreme precipitation events—
phenomena that have historically been difficult to forecast and 
understanding of which is essential for planning across public 
safety, infrastructure resilience, and climate adaptation.
In the summer of 2025, 38 million farmers in India received AI-powered forecasts 
of the start of the monsoon season (Photo credit: Precision Development [PxD]).
63
Advanced monsoon forecasting
In 2025, the Indian Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare 
partnered with an international team of researchers to select 
its monsoon forecast model. The University of Chicago’s 
Human-Centered Weather Forecasts Initiative led the effort 
to evaluate forecasting models, recruiting researchers from 
IIT Bombay, IISc Bengaluru, and the University of California, 
Berkeley. They found that Google’s NeuralGCM model and the 
Artificial Intelligence Forecasting System from the European 
Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts best predicted 
the monsoon.
The AI forecasts used in India were generated using a hybrid 
system that blended statistics from the India Meteorological 
Department’s extensive rain gauge network with two of the AI 
models that best predicted the localized onset of the Indian

monsoon, including Google’s NeuralGCM. This enabled the models to more 
accurately predict the onset of the monsoon season in India—up to a month in 
advance. The model’s high-fidelity simulations even identified an unusual dry 
spell during the monsoon’s progression.
As a result, the Government of India sent AI-powered forecasts predicting 
the start of the monsoon season to 38 million farmers. This gave the farmers 
multiple weeks’ notice to make more informed decisions about when to plant 
their crops—allowing them to adapt to an unusually delayed monsoon season. In 
fact, by enabling proactive decision-making, these month-ahead forecasts have 
the potential to nearly double annual farmer income.
134
Near-real-time weather nowcasting
Beyond long-term seasonal shifts, we’re also solving for the “here and now” 
of global precipitation. Through nowcasting—hyperlocal, short-term weather 
predictions—we’re improving access to reliable real-time weather information.
Using our MetNet model, we’re bringing AI-driven precipitation forecasts 
directly to people across Africa via Google Search. Our model uses satellite data 
and ground observations to produce state-of-the-art precipitation forecasts in 
data-sparse regions of the world, forecasting precipitation with high accuracy. 
For coastal and agricultural communities, the near-real-time data can enable 
rapid responses to shifting conditions. By facilitating real-time decision-making, 
nowcasting can help people know what weather to expect and strengthen 
overall resilience in the face of a changing planet.
Nowcasting on Google Search is 
live for users in Africa, displaying 
weather searches across the 
continent with more precision 
than ever before.
64

Protecting the planet
65 Bio-intelligence: Decoding the science of species
66 Shared prosperity: Protecting the nature that sustains our economy
65
For more than two decades, Google has been providing a 
clearer view of the changing planet through transformative 
tools like Google Earth and Google Earth Engine . Building on 
this long-standing work, we’re combining efforts from across 
Google toward an important pursuit: helping nature and 
people flourish together with AI-powered tools to empower 
governments, businesses, and communities to conserve 30% 
of the world’s land and oceans by 2030.
By pairing a 3D digital twin of the globe with actionable 
AI-powered nature insights, we aim to accelerate global 
conservation efforts and support the restoration of the vital 
ecosystems that sustain both humanity and the planet.
Bio-intelligence: Decoding the 
science of species
The world is facing a biodiversity crisis of unprecedented scale: 
studied animal populations have declined by an average of 
73% since 1970,
135 and approximately one million species are 
currently at risk of extinction from human activity. 136 By working 
together, the world can reverse these trends.
While countries worldwide have already committed to 
protect 30% of the world’s land and ocean by 2030, it 
remains challenging to know if these collective efforts are 
effectively conserving the biodiversity essential to our world. 
At Google, we’re using AI to better identify, model, and 
understand species—an important step toward protecting and 
preserving them.
The soundtrack of survival 
A powerful tool in this effort is Perch, a scalable bioacoustic 
embedding model we developed to allow conservationists to 
analyze massive bioacoustic datasets significantly faster than 
previously possible. The highly adaptable Perch 2.0 model 
provides state-of-the-art identification of vocalizing species—
like birds, frogs and insects—to monitor diverse species and 
habitats, ranging from threatened bird populations in the 
Pacific Northwest to underwater coral reefs .
In Australia, we partnered with the Australian Acoustic 
Observatory to fine-tune our Perch model for their local 
ecosystems. Using this model, researchers discovered a new 
population of the critically endangered plains-wanderer—a bird 
that hadn’t been seen in Melbourne’s western region for 30 
years. This collaboration makes Perch available to roughly 300 
conservation projects via the Ecosounds platform, helping to 
safeguard biodiversity across the continent.
In Brazil, Perch is being used to quantify the biodiversity 
impact of large-scale reforestation through our partnership 
with Mombak. By tracking the return of native species, the 
model acts as a “digital witness” to the recovery of these vital 
Amazonian ecosystems. This work is bolstered by our Forest 
Listeners platform, where citizen scientists have helped label 
over 150,000 recordings to fine-tune Perch for tracking 
restoration success across Brazilian rainforests.
137
These capabilities make nature protection more accessible, 
affordable, and effective. By lowering the technical barriers 
to conservation, we help ensure that local communities can 
directly participate in protecting their environments—and 
benefit from the data that makes it possible.

Identifying global wildlife species
Beyond sound, we’re using AI to interpret visual field data to 
better track wildlife populations. In 2025, we open-sourced 
SpeciesNet, a powerful Earth AI model capable of recognizing 
more than 2,000 animal species in images from motion-
triggered wildlife cameras with over 94% identification 
accuracy. One year later, SpeciesNet is being used by hundreds 
of organizations globally—including the Snapshot Serengeti 
program and the Idaho Department of Fish and Game —to 
monitor wildlife. SpeciesNet also powers the Wildlife Insights 
platform, which has processed over 300 million images from 
119 countries around the world.
138
Scaling open science 
We’re supporting the foundational science needed to map 
life on Earth through Google.org and Google’s specialized 
genomics tools like DeepPolisher, DeepVariant, and 
DeepConsensus . The Rockefeller University is using these 
tools, alongside $2 million in Google.org funding , to sequence 
species as part of the Earth BioGenome Project . With Google’s 
funding, support, and cutting-edge AI tools, the genetic code 
of 13 endangered species has been preserved across several 
animal classes, including mammals, birds, amphibians, and 
reptiles. To further address biodiversity data gaps, Google.org 
is providing a $2 million contribution to the UN Environment 
Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre to use AI to 
enhance species conservation by addressing distribution and 
overexploitation risks—particularly for plants—in support of 
global conservation decision-making.
We aim to make species insights as available and accessible as 
possible. World Wide Wood , a Google Arts & Culture project, 
features contributions from over 100 international partners 
to digitize nearly 450,000 plant specimens and use Gemini 
to create a Botanic Atlas that enables the rapid discovery of 
plant data. Additionally, Google.org is providing $1.5 million 
in funding to support iNaturalist in its effort to scale expert 
species knowledge by creating an AI-powered field guide that’ll 
improve the quality of biodiversity data used for conservation 
and AI training.
We’re also equipping the global community with foundational 
AI to better understand and manage the planet. Our Satellite 
Embedding dataset in Google Earth Engine—produced by 
AlphaEarth Foundations —is already being used by the Global 
Ecosystems Atlas and will help countries classify unmapped 
ecosystems, develop national ecosystem maps, and prioritize 
conservation and restoration areas to achieve global United 
Nations biodiversity goals.
Shared prosperity: Protecting 
the nature that sustains 
our economy
Over half of global GDP—roughly $58 trillion—depends directly 
on nature,139 making the preservation of ecosystem services 
like clean water and pollination essential for global economic 
stability and human wellbeing.
Google’s Perch model analyzes vast bioacoustic data to track and 
protect vulnerable species, like these Hawaiian honeycreepers.
66

We’re embedding biodiversity and nature-based solutions into 
our offerings for urban planning, supply chains , and industrial 
operations to create a sustainable blueprint for growth.
Growing trees for human wellbeing 
In cities, trees are essential to public health. They reduce heat 
islands, filter air, dampen noise, and promote exercise and 
mental health. Google’s high-resolution tree canopy data 
helps hundreds of cities with tree canopy assessment. The 
same data powers the Tree Equity Score and Tree Equity Score 
platforms, developed by American forests, which help cities 
prioritize equitable tree planting and target investments in the 
communities with the greatest need.
Just as urban trees improve local health, forest ecosystems 
provide a range of benefits—such as clean water, climate 
stability, and food security—that sustain human well-being 
and economic prosperity. Our research empowers companies 
to reduce deforestation in their supply chains and supports 
governments and forest stewards in protecting these 
critical habitats.
In 2025, we worked with partners to release Natural Forests 
of the World 2020, a globally consistent, 10-meter resolution 
map of the world’s natural forests. Using AI to differentiate 
natural forests from commercial plantations provides a 
critical baseline for monitoring ecosystem health and helps 
organizations comply with deforestation-free regulations. We 
also released ForestCast , a first-of-its-kind dataset that helps 
researchers train AI to predict where forests might be lost next 
(Figure 22). This allows conservationists to move from simply 
tracking past damage to predicting—and protecting—areas 
most at risk.
Figure 22. 
ForestCast 
ForestCast’s deep learning vision model providing a 
one year estimate of deforestation risk.
Legend
 Lower deforestation risk forec ast
Higher deforestation risk forec ast
67
While our research provides these foundational insights, 
forest nations also rely on large-scale analytical platforms like 
Google Earth Engine and Google Earth to map, monitor, and 
report forest change. By turning satellite imagery into verifiable 
data, these platforms enable countries to measure their 
conservation progress (and meet the requirements to receive 
results-based payments through jurisdictional REDD+).
By combining AI and geospatial technologies like these, 
we’re empowering everyone to help protect our planet’s 
critical ecosystems.
Empowering local stewards 
Supporting nature conservation supports local economies 
and empowers local people. In Brazil, Google.org funded 
initiatives in the areas of regenerative agriculture, bioeconomy, 
and reversing biodiversity loss—including AI for real-time 
monitoring of indigenous lands and platforms designed to 
facilitate sustainable rural financing and land management. 
We’ve also released high-resolution maps of hedgerows 
and woodland to help landowners in Europe and the United 
Kingdom highlight their biodiversity potential.
We’re even bringing the benefit of nature to people via their 
phones. The “Wild Hokkaido” Pixel sound collection , inspired by 
the Japanese practice of forest bathing, has been downloaded 
more than 2.1 million times as of December 2025.
Through AI-powered innovations and global partnerships, 
we’re providing the actionable insights needed to help both 
people and nature flourish in a changing world.

Detailed 
disclosures
68

Progress updates
69 Carbon footprint
70 Avoided emissions
72 Ambitions
69
Carbon footprint
In 2025, our total ambition-based emissions were approximately 14.5 million tCO 2e (Figure 23). This represents our “ambition-based” carbon footprint, the 
primary metric for tracking progress toward our net zero climate ambition. Derived from Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP)-aligned emissions, this metric 
incorporates adjustments to scope 3—specifically ambition-based boundary exclusions and market instrument reductions beyond what GHGP currently 
recognizes. Refer to the Methodology section for full details, the Climate ambitions section for boundary information, and the Environmental metrics data 
table for all reported emissions metrics.
Figure 23. 
2025 ambition-based carbon footprint
Scope
Legend
Scope 1
Scope 2 (market-based)
Scope 3 (Category 1: Purchased goods 
and services)
Scope 3 (Category 2: Capital goods) and 
(Category 11: Use of sold products)
Scope 3 (Category 3: Fuel- and 
energy-related activities)
Scope 3 (Category 4: Upstream 
transportation and distribution)
Scope 3 (Category 5: Waste generated 
in operations)
Scope 3 (Category 6: Business travel)
Scope 3 (Category 7: Employee commuting)
Scope 3 (Category 8: Upstream leased assets)
Total ambition-based emissions
86,100
2,815,000
1,056,000
7,634,000
718,000
1,067,000
9,000
449,000
140,000
499,000
14,473,100
tCO2e %
Scope 1:
86K tCO2e
Scope 3 
(ambition-based):
11.6M tCO
2e
Scope 2 
(market-based):
2.8M tCO
2e 1
19
7
53
5
7
<1
3
1
3
100
Total 
ambition-based 
emissions:
14.5M tCO2e
Ou
r total ambition-based emissions increased 18% compared to 2024—primarily driven by increases in supply chain activities that supported the rapid 
expansion of our business. We recognize that our climate impact has been growing alongside the unprecedented growth of AI, and we’re actively working 
to minimize this impact. In fact, without our decarbonization interventions, we estimate that our 2025 ambition-based carbon footprint would have been 
five times larger.

Scope 1
The primary sources of our scope 1 emissions are natural gas used for 
building heating, refrigerant leakage, and fuel used for backup generators 
and company vehicles. In 2025, our scope 1 emissions were approximately 
86,100 tCO2e, representing less than 1% of our total 2025 carbon footprint.
Compared to 2024, our scope 1 emissions increased by 20% , primarily 
due to our expanding data center portfolio and associated increases in 
fuel consumption for backup generator utilization. Our scope 1 emissions 
reduction efforts to date have focused on electrification, refrigerant 
mitigation, and renewable fuel use.
Scope 2
The primary source of our scope 2 emissions is electricity purchased 
for our data centers and offices. In 2025, our scope 2 (market-based) 
emissions were approximately 2.8 million tCO 2e, representing 19% of our 
total 2025 carbon footprint. 
Compared to 2024, our scope 2 (market-based) emissions decreased 
by 3% despite a 37% year-over-year increase in total electricity, primarily 
due to progress sourcing more clean energy in key grid regions, like in 
the United States and Japan, as well as through the limited application of 
GCs purchased from the marketplace.
140 Because we have more control 
over our data centers and offices than many other parts of our value chain, 
scope 2 emissions remain a key focus of our decarbonization efforts. Our 
scope 2 emissions reduction efforts include energy management and clean 
energy procurement, including GCs.
Refer to the Energy for our data centers section to learn more 
about how we’re scaling clean energy for our operations, advancing 
next-generation energy technologies, and leveraging GCs to meet 
the rapid growth in energy demand from compute growth.
Scope 3 (ambition-based)
Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions that occur across the supply 
chain, making them further removed from our direct control and therefore 
requiring more complex, long-term interventions to make significant 
progress. In 2025, our total scope 3 (ambition-based) emissions were 
approximately 11.6 million tCO
2e, representing 80% of our total 2025 
carbon footprint.
Compared to 2024, our total scope 3 (ambition-based) emissions 
increased by 25% , primarily due to technical infrastructure hardware 
manufacturing and their logistics as well as data center construction.
We also applied market instruments (primarily EACs) in accordance with 
our ambition-based methodology to account for reductions in our scope 
3 emissions; without these instruments, the year-on-year increase in our 
reported scope 3 emissions would have been 26%.
Refer to the Energy for our supply chain section to learn more 
about how we’re partnering with suppliers on innovative clean 
energy projects, providing tools for supply chain transformation, 
and using new designs and materials to decarbonize data 
center construction.
Avoided emissions
Our total ambition-based emissions have increased annually since 2020, 
including a 18% increase from 2024 to 2025. This growth can obscure the 
global mitigation efforts we’ve advanced for over two decades that are 
having a measurable impact today.
Initiatives like machine hardware efficiencies, software and compute 
efficiencies, clean energy for our operations, and more continue to avoid 
significant emissions. We estimate that in 2025 our carbon reduction 
initiatives collectively avoided over 58 million tCO
2e.141 Without these 
interventions, we estimate that our ambition-based carbon footprint in 
2025 would have been five times larger ( Figure 24).
Operational clean energy
By procuring clean energy for our data centers and other operations 
for over a decade, we’ve avoided a substantial amount of emissions. We 
estimate our clean energy purchasing cumulatively avoided approximately 
57 million tCO
2e from 2012 to 2025142—more than the emissions from the 
annual electricity use of over 11.8 million homes 143—with approximately 12 
million tCO2e avoided in 2025 alone. 144 Long-term PPAs accounted for the 
majority (81%) of these savings in 2025, with retired Granular Certificates 
purchased from the marketplace contributing the remaining minority 
(19%).145 Refer to the Energy for our data centers section to learn more 
about how we’re scaling clean energy for our operations, advancing next-
generation energy technologies, and using GCs to meet the rapid growth 
in energy demand from compute growth.
Supply chain clean energy
Transitioning our supply chain to clean electricity is one of our most critical 
decarbonization levers. Through the Google Clean Energy Addendum, 
we ask our highest-impact hardware suppliers to commit to a 100% 
clean electricity match by the end of 2029 for the electricity they use to 
manufacture Google products.
146 For emissions in our supply chain where 
we lack visibility to trace to a specific supplier or where there’s no supplier 
to engage, we’re pioneering a direct procurement approach using high-
quality energy certificates. We estimate these combined supply chain 
clean energy efforts avoided approximately 1.2 million tCO 2e in 2025.147 
Refer to Catalyzing new capacity: Partnering on innovative, localized clean 
energy projects to learn more about how we’re partnering with suppliers 
and piloting direct procurement to address emissions from electricity in 
our supply chain.
70

Figure 24. 
Avoided emissions 148 
Million tCO2e
Year
80
60
40
20
0
Legend
Total ambition-based 
emissions
Machine hardware 
efficiencies
Data center design 
and construction
Fleet Deployment 
Sustainability
Supply chain 
clean energy
Software and 
computing 
efficiencies
Operational 
clean energy
PUE improvement
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20252019
>5x
avoided
PUE improvement
Google’s data centers are among the industry’s most efficient, operating 
with a 2025 fleet-wide average PUE of 1.09. This efficiency was hard won; 
since 2008, we’ve consistently lowered our average annual fleet-wide PUE 
and successfully maintained those gains during periods of rapid growth. 
These gains help ensure that as we scale, we do so with the most efficient 
use of energy. Without these efforts, Google’s data center efficiency would 
have remained stagnant (or even decreased), resulting in higher energy 
consumption and a corresponding increase in emissions. We estimate that 
our data center energy efficiency avoided approximately 2.9 million tCO
2e 
in 2025 alone.149 Refer to The AI stack: Our approach to innovation and 
efficienc y to learn more about how we’re constantly working to improve 
our PUE.
Machine hardware efficiency
By consistently adopting newer, more resource-efficient hardware, we’re 
able to deliver more computing power using less electricity and fewer 
manufactured machines. We estimate that these machine hardware 
efficiencies avoided approximately 24.3 million tCO
2e in 2025.150 Refer 
to The AI stack: Our approach to innovation and efficiency to learn more 
about how we’ve been designing our TPUs for over a decade to maximize 
performance per watt.
Software and computing efficiency
By constantly optimizing our code and deploying more efficient memory 
and compute allocation strategies, we can increase Google’s fleet 
utilization and run complex workloads—like cloud computing and AI—
without needing to manufacture, ship, and power as many physical servers. 
These software and computing efficiencies increase fleet-wide utilization 
without compromising on performance, reducing our demand for new 
machines and data center space. We estimate that these software and 
computing efficiencies avoided approximately 14.1 million tCO
2e in 2025.151 
Refer to The AI stack: Our approach to innovation and efficiency to learn 
more about some of our software and computing efficiency efforts.
Data center design and construction
We’re reducing the carbon footprint of our physical infrastructure by 
optimizing data center design and construction. By using lower-carbon 
materials and construction site fuels like renewable diesel, while maximizing 
the capacity enabled per building, we’re working to reduce the emissions 
impact of our data center fleet. We estimate these data center design and 
construction initiatives avoided approximately 2.6 million tCO
2e in 2025.152 
Refer to Sustainable standards: Using innovative design and materials to 
transform construction to learn more about how we design for efficiency 
and advance lower-carbon materials at our data center campuses.
Fleet Deployment Sustainability
Our Fleet Deployment Sustainability program manages the lifecycle of 
our data center hardware through initiatives that optimize resources, like 
those that centralize fleet management —treating resources as a unified, 
interchangeable pool rather than as individual machines—or that harvest 
perfectly good parts from older machines for reuse. By optimizing the 
deployment, use, and reuse of our server fleet, we improve efficiency, 
extend hardware lifespans, minimize electronic waste, and reduce the 
embodied carbon associated with manufacturing new equipment. 
We estimate our Fleet Deployment Sustainability efforts avoided 
approximately 1.5 million tCO
2e in 2025.153
The magnitude of our avoided emissions proves our decarbonization tools 
are working, even though we’re growing at hyperscale. We’ll continue to 
advance these efforts to ensure we maximize the value of every watt.
71

Ambitions
Energy ambition
24/7 carbon-free energy—a moonshot we always knew would stretch the limits of what’s possible—remains a North Star for our operational energy strategy. 
It enables us to think holistically about grid solutions and ensures our strategies actively drive the technology, transaction, and policy innovations needed 
to realize a round-the-clock carbon-free future for everyone. While we’ve made meaningful progress, the rapid growth of our infrastructure—coupled with 
persistent external headwinds—means that this ambition remains a continuous, uphill pursuit. Nevertheless, we’re proud of what we have accomplished, 
and our focus remains on our ultimate objective: the systemic decarbonization of the grids that support our global operations while strengthening the 
stability and long-term affordability of the worldwide energy systems that we all share.
Carbon-free energy ambition
We aim to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy on every grid where we operate by 2030.
72
Progress
In 2025, we achieved a global average of approximately 65% CFE across 
our data centers and offices, remaining relatively flat compared to 66% in 
2024 (Figure 25).
154 This performance is meaningful given that we faced our 
largest load growth in history—a 37% annual increase in electricity demand. 
Overall, we increased our Google CFE in 7 of our grid regions that contain 
Google-owned and -operated data centers in 2025. And our clean energy 
efforts in Asia Pacific are yielding results, with increases to our regional CFE 
driven primarily by gains in Japan and India , where both our operational 
and contracted CFE increased compared to 2024. 
Research indicates that 24/7 CFE procurement accelerates grid 
decarbonization while improving the security and reliability of the electricity 
system, particularly once hourly matching reaches 70–80%.
155 Given this, 
we view grid regions exceeding this threshold as a major milestone. We’re 
proud to have achieved at least 80% CFE across 9 out of 22 grid regions 
with Google-owned and -operated data centers in 2025 ( Figure 26).
Granular Certificates are a foundational building block for 24/7 CFE 
procurement , a critical tool—whether from long-term clean energy 
agreements or purchased directly from the marketplace—that help drive 
grid decarbonization and incentivize the growth of clean energy and storage. 
Because GCs are still a relatively new tool, we spent 2025 establishing 
rigorous internal quality criteria, while also working with external partners to 
build the tools and methodologies needed for scale. While we’re building the 
marketplace where any company can transparently buy, sell, and retire hourly 
certificates, we chose not to apply the impact of our GCs purchased from 
the marketplace to our 24/7 CFE performance in 2025, and instead focused 
on new clean energy contracts. However, if we were to apply GCs purchased 
from the marketplace, we estimate that our global CFE performance would 
have been 69% in 2025. Moving forward, we’ll begin applying GCs purchased 
from the marketplace to our 24/7 CFE performance in 2026—following specific 
criteria
156—and we’ll continue to evaluate our methodology for GC application 
to CFE as the market develops. Our primary focus remains bringing new 
capacity to the grids where our energy demand is growing, to ensure that 
our growth contributes to making grids more reliable, affordable, and clean.
Challenges
Advancing 24/7 CFE involves navigating a complex landscape of 
interconnected structural and temporal challenges. Grid decarbonization is 
increasingly limited by physical infrastructure and administrative delays. In 
many regions, electricity grid constraints and long interconnection timelines 
remain a significant bottleneck for the deployment of CFE technologies. 
For instance, in the U.S. alone, over 2,000 GW of CFE projects are sitting in 
interconnection queues, waiting for the necessary grid upgrades to come 
online.
157 These delays create a significant lag—often four to five years—
between the signing of a PPA and the actual delivery of clean power to 
the grid. This could result in a decrease in our CFE percentage, even as we 
continue to procure clean energy. This is exacerbated by a broader global 
surge in electricity demand. While data centers and AI are a portion of this 
growth, other meaningful drivers include industrial manufacturing, electric 
transport, and increasing cooling needs amid rising temperatures.
158
While wind and solar are foundational, achieving 24/7 CFE requires “firm” 
power that’s available every hour. Technologies like advanced geothermal 
and SMRs are advancing rapidly and hold significant promise for providing 
this dispatchable carbon-free power , but they’re not yet commercially 
available at large scale. Their widespread adoption will require further cost 
declines and supply chain maturation, which are underway but unlikely to 
yield scaled, globally competitive industries until the 2030s.
Lastly, progress remains highly uneven globally, particularly in resource-
constrained markets like the Asia-Pacific region, which remains 
significantly undersupplied with clean power. These areas often face 
unique hurdles, including geographic and land constraints, lower availability 
of commercially scalable wind and solar resources, and higher construction 
costs. These issues can be compounded by structural barriers outside of 
any single company’s control, such as restrictive market designs and policy 
uncertainties.Given our increasing rate of electricity demand and the limits on 
our ability to procure CFE, there’s the possibility that our CFE percentage will 
fluctuate year over year. Despite these challenges, we believe that working to 
run on CFE every hour of every day, on every grid where we operate, remains 
the highest-impact strategy for accelerating global grid decarbonization.
Additional details
We set this ambition in 2020. The load-weighted average of CFE 
percentages across Google’s global portfolio of data centers and offices is 
referred to as “Google CFE.” This metric includes third-party data centers, 
and it represents the clean energy purchased to meet our electricity needs 
at every hour of every day, and within every grid where we operate. For more 
details, refer to “24/7 Carbon-Free Energy: Methodologies and Metrics .”

Figure 25. 
CFE performance
40
30
20
10
0
Terawatt-hours
2022 2023 2024 2025
Ye a r
Legend
Total electricity 
consumption across our 
data centers and offices
Additional CFE impact had 
we applied GCs purchased 
from the marketplace
Global average CFE percentage
65% CFE 
4%
64% CFE
64% CFE
66% CFE
Figure 26. 
CFE map of grid regions with Google-owned and -operated data centers
60
84
88
90
98
70
9283
86
79
75
82
65
83
58 42
31
15
5
65
57
U.S.
(SPP)
U.S.
(NVE)
Netherlands
Chile
U.S. 
(MISO)
U.S. 
(PJM)
Belgium
United
Kingdom
Finland
Denmark
Germany
Ireland
Taiwan
Japan 
(TEPCO)
Singapore
U.S. 
(DUKE)
U.S. 
(SC)
U.S. 
(SOCO)U.S. 
(TVA)
U.S. 
(ERCOT)
U.S.
(BPA)
U.S.
(SRP)
% hourly match 
with carbon-free 
energy
90%-100% 
80%-89% 
70%-79% 
60%-69% 
50%-59% 
40%-49% 
30%-39%
20%-29%
10%-19%
0%-9%
Legend
23
73

Climate ambitions
We aim to reach net-zero emissions across all of our operations and value chain by 2030.
We remain deeply committed to our climate strategy, yet it’s become 
clear that achieving our climate ambition is more complex and challenging 
than ever. To maintain momentum, we must remain flexible, continuously 
evaluating a broad range of solutions that balance cost and quality with the 
necessary speed of grid decarbonization and emissions reductions.
We continue to be guided by a core set of principles: prioritizing the 
highest emissions impact, scaling decarbonization efforts thoughtfully 
through strategies that solve for both Google and the broader ecosystem, 
and managing uncertainty by remaining flexible in our approach.
In 2021, we set an ambition to reach net-zero emissions across all of our 
operations and value chain by 2030. We aim to reduce over time our 
absolute, combined scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3 emissions by 50% 
from a 2019 base year,
159 and we plan to invest in a range of carbon removal 
solutions to neutralize our remaining emissions.
Progress
We prioritize emissions reductions first before counterbalancing remaining 
emissions. Overall, total emissions have grown in recent years driven by the 
growth of our business and growing adoption by users around the world, 
though our carbon reduction initiatives have succeeded in avoiding even 
greater increases. The majority of our emissions are indirect, coming from 
our supply chain—making them further removed from our direct control.
In 2025, our total ambition-based emissions were approximately 14.5 
million tCO
2e, representing an 18% year-on-year increase and an 81% 
increase compared to our 2019 base year—primarily driven by increases in 
supply chain activities (Figure 27 ). This highlights the challenge of absolute 
emissions reductions for high-growth businesses, as our infrastructure and 
computational demands have both scaled significantly since 2019.
• Operations: Combined scope 1 and scope 2 (market-based) 
emissions were 2.9 million tCO
2e, representing a 240% increase 
compared to 2019.
• Supply chain: Our scope 3 (ambition-based) emissions were 11.6 
million tCO
2e, representing a 62% increase compared to 2019.
While our total footprint grew in 2025, this increase was significantly 
tempered by our decarbonization efforts across our operations and supply 
chain. Most notably, our carbon reduction initiatives avoided over 58 million 
tCO
2e in 2025—without which we estimate our ambition-based carbon 
footprint would have been five times larger. 160 
Focusing on our operations—where we have more direct control—we 
successfully reduced our operational emissions by 2% year-over-
year, despite our largest annual increase in electricity consumption. 
We achieved this by combining GCs from our long-term clean energy 
agreements with GCs purchased from the marketplace, using the latter to 
bridge supply gaps in regions where grid and market constraints outpaced 
our long-term clean energy agreement volumes.
Ultimately, the scale of our impact has undergone a step-change since our 
2019 baseline. In 2025, we contracted for eight times more clean energy than 
we did in 2019, and the emissions we successfully avoided represent seven 
times the total volume of our 2019 ambition-based carbon footprint.
161 Our 
ambition has energized our work, moving both Google and global markets 
toward a cleaner, more reliable future than we once thought possible.
Figure 27. 
Operational and supply chain emissions 
Legend
Total operational emissions
Total scope 3 
(ambition-based) emissions
Scope 2 (market-based)
Scope 1
Scope 3 (ambition-based)
Operational emissions
Supply chain emissions
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Year
0
2
4
6
8
10
12Million tCO2e
74

Emissions Unit 2022 2023 2024 2025
Operations: Scope 1 + scope 2 (market-based) Year-on-year % change 38% increase 33% increase 12% reduction 2% reduction
Supply chain: Scope 3 (ambition-based) Year-on-year % change 6% increase 7% increase 23% increase 25% increase
Total ambition-based emissions Year-on-year % change 13% increase 14% increase 12% increase 18% increase
Key reduction areas
To address growth-driven headwinds, we’ve sharpened our focus on the 
levers that offer the highest decarbonization potential. Building on the 
lessons and achievements from our first two decades of climate action, 
we developed a company-wide approach to carbon reduction initiatives 
across our operations and value chain. We’re prioritizing three key areas 
of emissions reductions that are expected to be most impactful: clean 
electricity for our data centers, clean electricity for our supply chain, and 
low-carbon data center construction.
162
Clean electricity for our data centers
Reducing our operational footprint is a massive undertaking amid rapid 
growth, but it remains our largest reduction opportunity. In 2025, about 96% 
of our scope 2 (market-based) emissions resulted from the electricity needed 
to power our data centers and offices. And unlike our broader value chain, 
we have more direct control over the energy supply of our own operations. 
Our approach starts with maximizing data center efficiency to minimize 
electricity demand. This focus resulted in a 2025 average annual PUE of 
1.09 for our global data center fleet—meaning that Google data centers 
used 83% less overhead energy than the industry average.
163 After 
efficiency, we prioritize expanding clean energy procurement in every 
region where we operate. This past year was a record-breaker, with 
contracts signed for over 12 GW of net-new clean energy.
164 By using 
our engineering expertise and buying power, we’re also commercializing 
advanced carbon-free technologies, and we’re advocating for policies that 
unlock reliable, affordable power. And when local clean energy is unavailable, 
we supplement our efforts with GCs. By retiring GCs purchased from the 
marketplace, we avoided approximately 2.3 million tCO
2e in 2025, accounting 
for 19% of our scope 2 (market-based) emissions reduction in 2025. 165
When combined, our focus on operational efficiency and clean energy 
procurement translates into meaningful climate benefits. We estimate 
that our operational clean energy procurement avoided 12 million tCO
2e 
in 2025.166
Refer to the Energy for our data centers section to learn more 
about our efforts in this key reduction area.
Clean electricity for our supply chain
While effecting change across a global supply chain is a complex endeavor 
and is further removed from our direct operational control, it’s a critical 
reduction area: In 2025, approximately 80% of our ambition-based carbon 
footprint came from scope 3 emissions, with electricity use across our 
supply chain accounting for roughly half of that total.
Our approach centers on prioritizing engagement with our highest-impact 
suppliers. A cornerstone of this strategy is the Google Clean Energy 
Addendum (CEA), an agreement that asks these suppliers to commit to 
a 100% clean electricity match by the end of 2029 for the electricity they 
use to manufacture Google products.
167 The CEA has strong momentum, 
with the majority of our highest-impact hardware suppliers having signed 
our CEA as of the end of 2025, and we’re now focused on deepening our 
engagement with these suppliers to help them overcome technical hurdles 
and resource constraints. And beyond supplier engagement, we’re also 
pioneering a direct procurement approach to reduce electricity-related 
emissions in our supply chain that lack full data transparency or supplier 
traceability. We estimate these combined supply chain clean energy efforts 
avoided approximately 1.2 million tCO
2e in 2025.168
Refer to Sustainable standards: Using innovative design and 
materials to transform construction to learn more about our 
efforts in this key reduction area.
Low-carbon data center construction
After clean electricity across our operations and supply chain, low-
carbon data center construction is our third most impactful reduction 
area—particularly given increasing compute capacity demands. While 
construction emissions reached approximately 2.3 million tCO
2e in 2025, 
we reduced our data center construction emissions intensity by 53% from 
2019 to 2025 through infrastructure optimization, carbon-aware design, 
and material innovation.
169 By integrating low-carbon steel, concrete, 
or a combination of both across more than 20 construction projects in 
2025, we’re using materials that can reduce embodied carbon by up to 
40%.
170 In fact, we estimate that our data center design and construction 
initiatives avoided approximately 2.6 million tCO 2e in 2025.171 Additionally, 
we’ve updated our U.S.-based data center design specifications, 
calling for our contractors to report the emissions of their material 
purchases using Building Transparency ’s EC3 platform and to prioritize 
low-carbon materials.
Refer to Catalyzing new capacity: Partnering on innovative, 
localized clean energy projects to learn more about our efforts in 
this key reduction area.
Counterbalancing remaining emissions
Even as we work to reduce our emissions as much as feasible, we know 
there will be remaining emissions in our footprint. That same dynamic 
applies to the planet, which will increasingly need solutions over and above 
decarbonization to remediate the atmosphere. That’s why we support a 
75

wide variety of projects around the world designed to counterbalance the 
warming impact of our remaining emissions, with an eye to developing 
approaches anyone can use to help restore our planet—not just Google.
We’re building a portfolio of those projects through a range of independent 
purchases, deals contracted through buying consortia, and other 
strategic research and partnerships—and choosing projects we hope 
will have maximum catalytic impact for the planet. In 2025, we signed 16 
deals representing over $100 million for roughly 600,000 tCO
2 of carbon 
removal credits over the coming years, and also contracted for 1 million 
tCO2e (GWP100) of superpollutant credits. 172 This brings our cumulative 
contracted carbon removal credits portfolio to over 1.3 million tCO 2 as of 
the end of 2025. For more details, refer to the Environmental metrics data 
tables section.
Here are some of the ways we’re advancing this field:
• Long-duration removals: These technologies remove CO 2 from 
the atmosphere and store it for centuries. Methods range from 
biomass carbon removal and storage to alkalinity-based solutions 
like field weathering. These technologies can be powerful levers 
for addressing excess CO
2 in the long term, but can take years to 
reach climate-significant scale. We’re seeking breakthroughs in 
long-duration removal credits, in part, through our participation in 
Frontier, which Google co-founded in 2022.
• Nature-based solutions: These projects restore ecosystems using 
our planet’s oldest carbon removal technology: photosynthesis. 
The solutions play an important role in achieving near-term, scaled 
climate impact that persists for decades. We’re following the latest 
science to scale accurately measured nature-based carbon removal 
through our participation in Symbiosis —a multi-company coalition 
that Google co-founded in 2024.
• Superpollutant elimination: These projects target 
“superpollutants,” or non-CO 2 gases that warm the atmosphere 
more potently than CO 2. While superpollutants are short-lived 
and have a smaller impact on long-term warming, they have an 
enormous impact on near-term warming and are responsible for 
nearly half of atmospheric warming to date.
173 In early 2026, we 
pledged $50 million through 2030 to take action on superpollutants, 
because we believe their elimination is a key step toward limiting 
near-term warming. 
We’ve worked with leading climate experts to create an accurate way of 
measuring the time-dependent impact of each intervention. By capturing 
the true impact of each project we fund in the terms that matter most to 
the planet—temperature over time—we can overlay these approaches 
to maximize their combined effectiveness in addressing both near- and 
long-term warming (Figure 28). For example, one way to neutralize the total 
warming impact of one ton of CO
2 would be to use superpollutant credits that 
are replaced with longer-lived credits as their atmospheric impact expires.
Figure 28. 
Illustrative warming impact profile of each credit category
Warming impact profile of each category (illustrative)
Slows near-term 
warming by 
eliminating 
high-GWP gases
Scales quickly to 
provide critical 
mid-term 
cooling
Permanently restores 
the atmosphere to 
pre-industrial conditions 
Legend
Superpollutant elimination
Nature-based solutions Long-duration removals
Time
76

Challenges
The rapid expansion of AI marks a critical inflection point for Google and 
the broader industry, driving non-linear growth that complicates long-term 
planning and forecasting.
Meeting the unprecedented infrastructure and energy demands of 
AI creates significant headwinds to reducing absolute emissions. 
Furthermore, shifting government policies introduce regulatory 
uncertainty and economic considerations. These combined factors 
impact the precision of our roadmaps and necessitate ongoing strategic 
adjustments. These challenges are detailed further in the opening of the 
Ambitions section.
For counterbalancing remaining emissions, achieving rigorously quantified 
impact on planetary warming via a range of highly disparate approaches 
is an inherently ambitious task. And since the most catalytic projects we 
support in this area are—by definition—at a relatively early stage, some 
of them may underperform expectations. We will share openly when this 
happens, and continuously evolve our portfolio of climate solutions based 
on what is working best to help the atmosphere.
Additional details
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validation: In 2025, the SBTi 
validated Alphabet’s near-term science-based emissions reduction 
ambition based on our data, company structure, and activities at that time, 
ensuring our ambition meets the most rigorous standards for emissions 
reductions and contributes to limiting climate change.
174
Scope: Comprises all Alphabet scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3 emissions, 
with the exception of food program purchases, certain purchased goods 
and services associated with Alphabet’s day-to-day operations, 175 and 
Other Bets capital goods. 176 Starting in 2024, in line with SBTi’s guidelines, 
we’ve excluded these scope 3 activities because they’re peripheral to 
our core operations or our ability to influence emissions reductions is 
limited. These boundary exclusions are reflected for all reported years 
of our ambition-based emissions data, and they collectively account for 
25% of our 2019 scope 3 footprint—well within SBTi’s guidelines to exclude 
no more than 33% of base year scope 3 emissions.
177 To learn more about 
the methodology behind our scope 3 boundary exclusions, refer to the 
Methodology section.
Base year: When setting our carbon reduction ambition in 2021, the most 
recent emissions inventory available was from 2020. However, since 
operations were significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic that 
year, we determined the data wasn’t representative of a typical year. 
Instead, we selected 2019—the most recent year with representative data—
as the base year ( Figure 29).
It’s important to note that both Google and the world have transformed 
dramatically since 2019. For example, our total electricity demand has 
increased by over 250% since 2019. And in 2025, we contracted for eight 
times more clean energy than we did in 2019, and the emissions we 
successfully avoided in 2025 represent seven times the total volume of our 
2019 ambition-based carbon footprint.
178 
Figure 29. 
Carbon reduction ambition base year (2019) emissions
10
8
6
4
2
0
Million tCO2e
2019
tCO2e
127,000Scope 3 (Category 8: Upstream leased assets)
Legend
203,000Scope 3 (Category 7: Employee commuting)
472,000Scope 3 (Category 6: Business travel)
14,000Scope 3 (Category 5: Waste generated in operations)
476,000Scope 3 (Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution)
430,000Scope 3 (Category 3: Fuel-and-energy-related activities)
4,502,000Scope 3 (Category 2: Capital goods) and (Category 11: Use of sold products)
925,000Scope 3 (Category 1: Purchased goods and services)
788,200Scope 2 (market-based)
65,300Scope 1
Total 2019 base year emissions 8,002,500
440,000Exclusions from scope 3 (Category 2: Capital goods) and (Category 11: Use of sold products)
1,912,000Exclusions from scope 3 (Category 1: Purchased goods and services)
Year
77

Water ambition
We aim to replenish more water than we consume and help improve water quality and ecosystem health in the communities where we operate.
Water replenishment
We aim to replenish 120% of the freshwater volume we consume, on average, across our offices and data centers by 2030.
Progress
In 2025, our water stewardship projects replenished approximately 7.7 
billion gallons of water (29 billion liters or 29 million cubic meters), or 
roughly 78% of our freshwater consumption (Figure 3 0).
179 This marks 
another year of steady progress from 63% 180 in 2024.181 This was the 
result of both the continued success of our existing projects and the 
implementation of new projects that have started delivering volumetric 
replenishment benefits. We supported 54 new water stewardship 
projects in 2025, increasing our total portfolio to 165 projects spanning 
97 watersheds.
182 We estimate these 165 projects will have the capacity to 
replenish more than 19.7 billion gallons of water in 2030, once projects are 
fully implemented.
183
Figure 30. 
Water replenishment performanceMillion gallons
2022 2023 2024 2025
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
Legend
Estimated water replenishment capacity of the portfolio in 2030 once fully implemented
Total freshwater consumption for offices and Google-owned and -operated data centers
18%
63%
78%
Estimated water replenished
6%
Year
Challenges
Scaling our water replenishment portfolio to keep up with the growth of 
our business is an increasingly complex task. Our replenishment ambition 
is tied directly to our freshwater consumption, which rose by 37% in 2025 
as we expanded our data center infrastructure to meet the demands of AI 
and other digital services. We expect our data center water consumption 
to continue to grow, meaning our replenishment efforts must accelerate 
to keep pace. At the same time, we’re focused on identifying and sourcing 
high-impact projects within the watersheds where we operate. This 
requires searching for new partners, developing new project opportunities 
where existing ones may not exist, and assessing the unique environmental 
contexts of each region to ensure that our projects aren’t just matching 
volumes, but also supporting local water security and ecosystem health.
Additional details
We set this ambition in 2021, and it covers water that’s replenished as 
a percentage of the amount of freshwater we consume each year at 
our offices and data centers (i.e., excluding seawater and reclaimed 
wastewater). A third-party partner uses the Volumetric Water Benefit 
Accounting (VWBA 2.0) methodology to quantify the estimated eligible 
replenishment benefits. We count replenishment benefits from projects 
that are active within the watersheds that our operations rely on and that 
have confirmed volumetric benefits from the reporting year.
78

Waste ambitions
Our initial circularity programs, launched in 2019, provided a strong foundation, and we’re now accelerating those efforts to meet the demands of a 
changing technology industry. This evolution focuses on scaling our successes and finding new ways to keep resources in use longer. We execute this vision 
through three core principles:
1. Design for circularity: We build our technology and workplaces with a focus on circularity and safer chemistry.
2. Maximize value: We prioritize circular operations that recover, repair, and redeploy products and materials to make waste obsolete.
3. Empower others: We help everyone participate in the circular economy through our technology and partnerships.
We remain committed to maximizing the reuse of finite resources across our operations, products, and supply chain–while enabling others to do the same–
and to discovering and scaling a more sustainable and more circular economy for everyone.
Data center Zero Waste to Landfill
We aim to achieve Zero Waste to Landfill for our global data center operations.
Progress
In 2025, 50% of Google-owned and -operated data center campuses 
achieved Zero Waste to Landfill, up from 35% in 2024 (Figure 31). This 
progress reflects our commitment to advancing the maturity of our 
waste operations, underpinned by a new approach to UL certification that 
introduces more rigorous tracking and accounting for waste streams. 
Despite three new data center campuses coming into scope of this 
ambition in 2025, we successfully increased the number of campuses 
achieving this ambition by six, demonstrating that our diversion strategies 
kept up with rapid growth of our global data center infrastructure.
Figure 31. 
Data center Zero Waste to Landfill performance
Data center campuses
40
30
20
10
0
50%
35%33%
23%
2022 2023 2024 2025
Data center campuses 
yet to achieved 
our Zero Waste to 
Landfill ambition
Data center campuses 
that have achieved 
our Zero Waste to 
Landfill ambition
Legend
Year
79
Challenges
Continuing to make progress toward our data center Zero Waste to Landfill 
ambition is an increasingly complex task due to a variety of factors. Our 
data center portfolio growth has led to an increase in onsite packaging 
waste, a challenge we’re mitigating by partnering with our packaging team 
to centralize recycling and return processes—improving both diversion 
rates and deployment efficiency. However, achieving global consistency 
remains a significant hurdle, as every site operates at a different scale and 
maturity level. This inherent variability requires us to navigate unique local 
constraints in waste tracking and diversion infrastructure, ensuring our 
global strategy is effectively adapted to the specific operational context of 
each data center.
Additional details
We set this ambition in 2016. With regard to annual operational waste 
for all Google-owned and -operated data center campuses globally, we 
consider “Zero Waste to Landfill” to mean that more than 90% of waste is 
diverted from landfill and incineration, in line with industry standards. Our 
waste diversion methodology considers thermally processed waste (i.e., 
incineration), with or without energy recovery, as waste disposal. Reporting 
for this ambition is limited to Google-owned and -operated data center 
campuses that have at least six months of data in the reporting year.

Food waste
We aim to divert all food waste from landfill by 2025.
Progress
In 2025, the final year of this ambition, we held our diversion rate steady 
by diverting 84% of food waste from landfill—compared to 85% in 2024 
(Figure 32). Since setting this ambition in 2022, we’ve made progress 
addressing food waste across each stage of our operations. Upstream, 
we prevented waste by sourcing “imperfect” produce and incorporating 
upcycled ingredients. Within our own kitchens, we reinforced small-batch 
cooking and used AI to track waste patterns. For unavoidable surplus, we 
strengthened our downstream impact by reinforcing guidelines for food 
donations and improving composting infrastructure in the communities 
where we operate.
Furthermore, by prioritizing the prevention of waste before it’s ever 
created—through efforts like just-in-time cooking and menu optimization—
we exceeded our complementary ambition of cutting food waste in half 
for each Googler by 2025. We ultimately reduced food waste per Googler 
by approximately 56% compared to a 2019 baseline. 184 This represents a 
significant improvement over the 39% reduction in 2024, and demonstrates 
that we’re successfully producing less waste per person, even as our 
landfill diversion percentage remained stable.
Figure 32.
Food waste performance
Legend
Percentage of food waste diverted from landfill Percentage reduction of food waste per Googler 
Percentage of food waste diverted
Percentage of food waste reduced
2022 2023 2024 2025
100
75
50
25
0
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
85%82%85%
56%
84%
18%
38% 39%
Year
Challenges
While we fell short of our ambition, our 84% diversion rate is about three 
times the U.S. national average. 185 Nonetheless, headwinds included 
changes to municipal waste policies and limited access to food waste 
processing infrastructure, particularly in parts of Asia Pacific.
Our work to measure, manage, and reduce food waste continues, and 
we’ve already doubled down on our operational expectations. In addition, 
we’re expanding our technology partnerships with companies such as Mill, 
integrating AI-driven insights to further refine our operations and keep 
food out of landfills.
Additional details
We set this ambition in 2022, and it covered annual food waste diverted 
from landfills and incinerators in kitchens and cafes at Google’s offices 
globally. We defined “zero food waste to landfill” as 99% diversion via 
composting, anaerobic digestion, donations, or other on-site processing 
methods—which went further than the 90% industry standard for Zero 
Waste to Landfill.
80

Recycled plastic
We aim to use recycled or renewable material in at least 50% of plastic used across our consumer hardware product portfolio 
by 2025.
Progress
In 2019, we announced an ambition to use recycled materials in all our new 
consumer hardware products. In 2020, we reached that goal ahead of 
schedule and set a new ambition to use at least 50% recycled or renewable 
plastic in our hardware products by 2025, prioritizing recycled plastic 
everywhere we could. We’ve come a long way: 48% of the plastic Google 
used in products manufactured in 2025 was recycled content (Figure 33).
186 
This represents an increase from 40% in 2024. 187
We reached this level of recycled content by embedding circularity into 
our core design process, moving beyond simple components to complex 
structural parts. For instance, the Pixel 10 series is made with the most 
recycled content of any Pixel phone generation yet.
188 By proving that 
recycled materials don’t require a compromise on the premium feel or 
durability of Pixel and Nest products, we’ve normalized more sustainable 
sourcing across our supply chain.
Figure 33.
Recycled plastic performance
Percentage
20252024202320222021
50
40
30
20
10
0
36%
41%
34%
40%
48%
Legend
Percentage of recycled or renewable material in plastic used across our consumer hardware product portfolio
Ye a r
Challenges
Despite this progress, we didn’t reach our 50% ambition by a narrow 
margin, due to changes in our product mix, among other factors. Some 
product types use less plastic than others, which can reduce opportunities 
to use recycled content. For example, of the 14 plastic parts in Pixel 10a, 11 
are made with recycled content that is at least 30% recycled plastic.
189 
While we fell short of this plastic-focused ambition, the work catalyzed a 
broader shift in our materials strategy. We’ve learned that the fastest path 
to meaningful impact is to examine all the materials across our devices, like 
the recycled rare-earth elements in our magnets and the recycled tin in our 
circuit board solder.
Looking ahead, we’re focused on integrating recycled content across 
all materials, not just plastic. This broader vision is reflected in the fact 
that at least 26% of all material used in our new products launched and 
manufactured in 2025 was recycled content.
190
Additional details
We set this ambition in 2020, and it included the minimum percentage of 
recycled or renewable plastic content calculated as a percentage of total 
plastic (by weight) in Google’s consumer hardware portfolio for products 
manufactured in a given year. The following may have been excluded 
from the calculation of percentage: plastics in printed circuit boards, 
labels, cables, connectors, electronic components and modules, optical 
components, electrostatic discharge components, electromagnetic 
interference components, films, coatings, and adhesives. Renewable 
content consisted of plastic made from bio-based material. This ambition 
didn’t include third-party products such as the Nest x Yale Lock.
81

Environmental data
82 Methodology
90 Environmental metrics data tables
Methodology
The reporting period for our environmental data covers our fiscal year 
January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025. Most of our environmental 
data covers Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries. All reported data is global 
and annual unless otherwise specified. The below methodologies apply 
to our GHG emissions, as well as certain other carbon, energy, water, 
and waste metrics, for all years presented in our Environmental metrics 
data tables.
Greenhouse gas emissions
GHG emissions reporting standards
GHG emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol (GHGP) standards and guidance developed by the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) and The World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD), including A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (Revised Edition) and the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Scope 
2 Guidance (an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard) 
(collectively, the “Corporate Standard”), as well as the Technical Guidance 
for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions (“Scope 3 Technical Guidance”), and 
the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(“Scope 3 Standard”) (collectively, “the Greenhouse Gas Protocol”).
Our inventory
We use the operational control approach to define our organizational 
boundary, which means we account for all emissions from operations over 
which we have control. The GHGP defines operational control as having the 
authority to introduce and implement operational policies over an asset, 
and we report all emissions for Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries’ data 
centers, offices, and other assets under our operational control.
Our inventory includes all seven GHGs addressed by the Kyoto Protocol, 
where relevant: carbon dioxide (CO
2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride 
(SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF 3). However, perfluorocarbons (PFCs), 
sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF 3) aren’t emitted as a 
result of our operations and are therefore appropriately excluded from 
our “GHG emissions by type” data table. We report emissions both in 
the unit of metric tons per gas (i.e., tCO
2, tCH4, tN2O, tHFCs) and in the 
standardized unit of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO 2e), with 
the exception of biogenic emissions which are reported as tCO 2 only.
We source the global warming potentials (GWP) for each GHG from the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment 
Report (AR4), IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5), and IPCC Sixth 
Assessment Report (AR6), and we use the most up-to-date emission 
factors available when calculating our emissions, based on our reporting 
timelines and requirements.
We round all reported emissions values to the nearest hundred, except for 
scope 3 emissions (which we round to the nearest thousand) and emissions 
per gas (which we round to the nearest hundred unless the total is less than 
50 tons, in which case we report to the nearest one).
Ambition-based emissions
Ambition-based emissions serve as the primary metric for tracking 
progress toward our 2030 climate ambitions. They are derived from our 
GHGP-aligned emissions from scope 1, scope 2 (market-based), and 
scope 3, with scope 3 adjustments for boundary exclusions and market 
instrument reductions.
Ambition-based scope 3 boundary exclusions
In 2025, the SBTi validated Alphabet’s near-term science-based emissions 
reduction ambition based on our data, company structure, and activities 
at that time. Starting in 2024, in line with SBTi’s guidelines, we’ve excluded 
certain scope 3 activities from categories 1 and 2 that are peripheral to 
our core operations or where our ability to influence emissions reductions 
is limited. These boundary exclusions include food program purchases, 
certain purchased goods and services associated with Alphabet’s day-to-
day operations (such as IT, marketing, professional services, legal services, 
software, real estate management, etc.), and Other Bets
191 capital goods.
Ambition-based scope 3 market instrument reductions
We’ve updated our methodology to calculate ambition-based scope 3 
emissions following criteria selected or developed by our team of experts. 
This approach allows us to account for reductions from market instruments 
beyond what GHGP currently recognizes for certain scope 3 categories. 
Because the GHGP does not address the use of market instruments for 
scope 3—beyond energy attribute certificates (EACs) to cover transmission 
and distribution losses in category 3—we developed a rigorous set of 
criteria to quantify their impact, providing a more complete picture of how 
our procurement strategy reduces our footprint. We account for two types 
of scope 3 market instruments:
82

1. EACs from our long-term clean energy agreements or purchased 
from the marketplace: These cover a portion of the electricity 
emissions across our value chain.
2. Sustainable Aviation Fuel Certificates (SAFc): These cover a portion 
of the emissions from our logistics providers’ air transportation of 
our consumer products.
Scope 1 emissions
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources such as company 
vehicles or generators at our offices and data centers. They represent direct 
emissions from Google-owned and -operated data centers, offices, and 
other assets, including fuel use from back-up generators, fuel consumption 
from our operated vehicles and aircraft, methane and nitrous oxide from 
biogenic fuel sources, natural gas usage, and refrigerant leakage. Where 
actual data isn’t available, for example from a utility bill, we estimate fuel 
consumption using the square footage of our data centers, offices, and 
other assets and internally developed fuel-specific intensity factors 
by office type based on data from the reporting period. Where actual 
refrigerant leakage data isn’t available, we estimate refrigerant leakage 
by using an average of GWP values from known refrigerants within our 
portfolio and leakage rates at our data centers, offices, and other assets.
The emission factors used to calculate scope 1 emissions include the 
2025 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emission Factors for 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories, the 2025 Climate Registry Default Emission 
Factors, and the 2025 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero 
(DESNZ) UK Government GHG Conversion Factors.
Scope 2 emissions
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from purchased electricity; 
natural gas use and refrigerant leakage in our leased offices; and purchased 
steam, hot water, and chilled water from district energy systems. We report 
scope 2 emissions using both location-based and market-based methods. 
The location-based method reflects the average carbon intensity of 
the electric grids where our operations are located and thus where our 
electricity consumption occurs. The market-based method incorporates 
our retirement of EACs and Granular Certificates (GCs) from our long-term 
clean energy agreements as well as GCs purchased from the marketplace.
We use actual data (such as third-party invoices, monthly utility bills, or 
meter readings) to calculate scope 2 emissions. Where actual data isn’t 
available, we estimate electricity consumption, natural gas consumption, 
and activity from district energy systems using the square footage of our 
data centers, offices, and other assets and internally developed intensity 
factors by office type, based on data from the reporting period.
The emission factors used to calculate scope 2 (location-based) emissions 
include the 2025 EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 
the 2025 DESNZ UK Government GHG Conversion Factors, the 2025 
International Energy Agency (IEA) Emission Factors, the 2025 EPA eGRID 
Emission Factors, and the 2025 Climate Registry Default Emission Factors.
The emission factors used to calculate scope 2 (market-based) emissions 
are the same as scope 2 (location-based) with the addition of emission 
factors specific to EACs and GCs, as well as residual mix emission factors 
where available. Residual grid mix removes the proportion of renewable 
energy contracted to other parties—which have the rights to claim those 
clean electricity attributes through EACs—from the grid electricity mix, and 
therefore avoids double counting. Comprehensive residual mix emission 
factors are currently only available for Europe (the 2024 Association of 
Issuing Bodies’ European Residual Mixes). Outside of Europe, residual 
emission factors aren’t available from third-party sources to account 
for voluntary purchases, and this may result in double counting between 
electricity consumers.
When accounting for scope 2 (market-based) emissions reductions, we 
match GCs purchased from the marketplace to the same hour and within 
the same grid region as our electricity consumption. This approach is 
more stringent than the GHGP’s Scope 2 Guidance, which only requires 
matching across an annual timeframe and within broader market 
boundaries. These GCs purchased from the marketplace are supplemental 
and secondary to the EACs from our long-term clean energy agreements. 
We ensure that the combined volume of GCs and EACs we apply doesn’t 
exceed our total electricity consumption in any grid region.
Scope 3 emissions
Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions from other sources in our 
value chain. In 2025, we added category 8 to our scope 3 emissions 
inventory for all reported years. We calculate our scope 3 emissions using 
methodologies from the Scope 3 Technical Guidance for the following 
categories identified as relevant:
• Category 1: Purchased goods and services
• Category 2: Capital goods
• Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in 
scope 1 or scope 2)
• Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution
• Category 5: Waste generated in operations
• Category 6: Business travel
• Category 7: Employee commuting
• Category 8: Upstream leased assets
• Category 11: Use of sold products
We’ve determined that the remaining scope 3 categories were either not 
relevant or not applicable based on the Scope 3 Standard’s relevance 
criteria, which is described further in our 2026 (FY2025) Independent 
Accountants’ Review Report . The emissions associated with categories 
deemed not relevant are not significant to scope 3 emissions individually or 
in the aggregate.
For each relevant scope 3 category, we report emissions according to 
their minimum boundaries listed by the Scope 3 Standard. For certain 
categories, we’ve also included activities that the Scope 3 Standard 
deems optional.
For each relevant scope 3 category, we provide the following details, 
as applicable: the minimum and optional activities included, calculation 
methods, activity data, emission factors, percentage of category 
emissions from value chain partners, allocations, and any significant 
estimates or assumptions.
83

“Category 1: Purchased goods and services” includes upstream 
emissions generated from manufacturing consumer devices and spare 
parts, our food program, and additional goods and services purchased for 
our operations. We use a combination of the average-data method and 
spend-based method, as defined by the Scope 3 Technical Guidance. To 
calculate supply chain emissions generated from manufacturing consumer 
devices and spare parts, we perform third-party-verified Life Cycle 
Assessments (LCAs) in accordance with International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 14040 and ISO 14044. We also account for emissions 
reductions from suppliers’ procurement of clean electricity matched to 
a portion of the electricity they use to manufacture consumer devices 
associated with our Clean Energy Addendum (CEA). We estimate CEA 
emissions reductions using EAC data provided by suppliers and verified 
by a third party, as well as lifecycle electricity emission factors from the 
Sphera Professional database 2025. To calculate emissions generated 
from our food program, we use HowGood’s Product Carbon Footprint 
software and procurement volumes from a subset of our offices. Where 
procurement volume data isn’t available for the remaining offices, we 
estimate remaining emissions by scaling emissions from procurement 
data based on global building admittance data. To calculate emissions 
generated from the remaining goods and services purchased for our 
operations, we estimate supplier emissions using spend data and the 
Cornerstone Sustainability Data Initiative’s U.S. Environmentally-Extended 
Input-Output (“USEEIO”) Supply Chain GHG Emission Factors (2025 
v1.4), which are then adjusted for inflation using the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics’ Consumer Price Index Inflation Calculator (“USEEIO supply 
chain emission factors”). Approximately 2% of the data we use to calculate 
category 1 emissions are obtained from value chain partners.
“Category 2: Capital goods” includes upstream emissions generated 
from final goods used in the manufacturing and assembly of servers and 
networking equipment used in our technical infrastructure (“technical 
infrastructure hardware”), materials and fuels used in the construction 
of data centers and offices, and additional capital goods purchased for 
our operations. We use a combination of the average-data and spend-
based methods, as defined by the Scope 3 Technical Guidance, as well as 
LCAs that are in accordance with ISO 14040, ISO 14044, and ISO 14067. To 
calculate emissions generated from technical infrastructure hardware, we 
primarily use configurable LCA models (third-party reviewed ) for high-
impact components (which account for the majority of our total technical 
infrastructure hardware emissions). This allows us to tailor calculations to 
our specific mix of data center hardware and incorporate supplier-specific 
process-level data. Where component- and supplier-specific information 
isn’t available, we use generic data and default model values to make 
estimates in the LCAs. For technical infrastructure hardware where LCA 
data is unavailable, we apply the spend-based method; we collect supplier 
emissions data from our contract manufacturers as well as component 
and fabless suppliers through the CDP Supply Chain Program. Alphabet’s 
share of these suppliers’ emissions is determined via economic allocation 
(i.e., based on revenue and spend). Where available and valid, we use scope 
2 market-based method emissions from these suppliers. Where supplier-
specific emissions data isn’t available through CDP, we estimate supplier 
emissions using spend data or proxy supplier emissions data. We also 
account for emissions reductions from suppliers’ procurement of clean 
electricity matched to a portion of the electricity they use to manufacture 
technical infrastructure hardware associated with our CEA. We estimate 
CEA emissions reductions using EAC data provided by suppliers and 
verified by a third party, as well as lifecycle electricity emission factors 
from the Sphera Professional database 2025. To calculate emissions 
generated from materials used in data center and office construction, 
we use data on annual construction area and lifecycle emission factors 
derived from LCAs conducted on our data centers and offices, as well as 
invoice-based material information. We input building mass by material 
data—either collected or estimated based on actual data when unknown—
into LCA software (Tally, One Click LCA, and SimaPro—which reference 
emission factors from ecoinvent and Sphera) and the Embodied Carbon 
in Construction Calculator (EC3) webtool. For offices, the LCA results 
undergo third-party review (e.g., by the U.S. Green Building Council for 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design [LEED] certification). To 
calculate emissions generated from additional capital goods purchased 
for our operations, we estimate supplier emissions using spend data 
and USEEIO supply chain emission factors. Approximately 7% of the 
data we use to calculate category 2 emissions are obtained from value 
chain partners.
We report this category’s emissions based on both the GHGP and our 
ambition-based adjustments, the latter of which takes into account 
boundary exclusions and market instrument reductions from our EAC 
procurement applied to a portion of the electricity from the manufacturing 
and assembly of our technical infrastructure hardware and electricity 
from manufacturing materials used in data center construction. Exclusions 
include certain purchased goods associated with Alphabet’s day-to-
day operations and Other Bets capital goods. We estimate electricity 
consumption from manufacturing technical infrastructure hardware based 
on supplier-specific data and reasonable assumptions. We estimate the 
location of electricity consumption from technical infrastructure hardware 
at the country scale based on proxy data from our value chain. We estimate 
electricity consumption from manufacturing data center materials based 
on activity data and reasonable assumptions. We estimate the location 
of electricity consumption from manufacturing these materials at the 
country scale based on representative LCAs and industry research. We 
calculate electricity-related emissions for both activities using lifecycle 
electricity emission factors from the Sphera Professional database 2025. 
EACs applied to these activities are from clean energy generated within 
the same market boundary, meeting Criteria 5 (market boundaries) and 
all other relevant criteria from the GHGP’s “quality criteria” provided in its 
Scope 2 Guidance.
“Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in 
scope 1 or scope 2)” includes upstream emissions from purchased 
fuels (e.g., natural gas, diesel, and gasoline) and purchased energy 
(i.e., electricity, steam, heating, and cooling), as well as emissions from 
transmission and distribution losses from purchased energy. We use the 
average-data method, as defined by the Scope 3 Technical Guidance. We 
calculate upstream emissions from purchased fuel, steam, heating, and 
cooling, in addition to emissions from transmission and distribution losses 
from steam, heating, and cooling using 2025 DESNZ UK Government GHG 
Conversion Factors. We calculate emissions from upstream electricity 
by country using the 2025 IEA Emission Factors. We calculate emissions 
from electricity transmission and distribution losses using grid loss 
values and emission factors derived from the 2025 IEA Emission Factors 
and, for the United States, the 2025 EPA eGRID Emission Factors. For 
upstream electricity, we calculate emissions using scope 2 market-based 
84

data (i.e., by using the remaining electricity not addressed by renewable 
energy). For electricity transmission and distribution losses, we use the 
market-based method to account for EACs we’ve purchased to cover 
a portion of grid losses. The GHGP permits the use of EACs to cover 
transmission and distribution losses and thus does not require separate 
ambition-based adjustments.
“Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution” includes 
emissions generated primarily from the transportation and warehousing 
of our consumer products and data center equipment. We also include 
the optional activities of upstream emissions of transportation. For 
transportation emissions, we use a combination of the fuel-based and 
distance-based methods, as defined by the Scope 3 Technical Guidance. 
For transportation emissions, we collect well-to-wheel (WTW) emissions 
data—calculated based on fuel use or weight-distance data—and routing 
associated with a shipment from logistics providers. Logistics providers 
determine Alphabet’s share of a shipment’s transportation emissions via 
physical allocation (i.e., based on how much of the total shipment’s weight 
is from Alphabet’s goods). Where actual logistics provider emissions data 
isn’t available, we calculate WTW emissions using weight and distance data 
by shipment collected from our logistics providers, using emission factors 
from the 2024 Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) Framework v3.2 
or EPA SmartWay carrier performance data. Where logistics provider 
weight and distance data isn’t available, we estimate emissions based on 
reported data from other transportation providers and the weight shipped. 
For warehousing emissions, we use the site-specific method, as defined by 
the Scope 3 Technical Guidance. To calculate consumer product and data 
center equipment warehousing emissions, we collect energy data directly 
from the warehouses and calculate emissions using lifecycle electricity 
and fuel emission factors from the Sphera Professional database 2025. 
Alphabet’s share of a third party’s warehouse energy is determined via 
physical allocation (e.g., based on how much of the total warehouse area 
is used for Alphabet’s goods). Nearly 100% of the data we use to calculate 
category 4 emissions are obtained from value chain partners.
We report this category’s emissions based on both the GHGP and 
ambition-based adjustments, the latter of which takes into account market 
instrument reductions from our SAFc procurement applied to a portion 
of emissions from our logistics providers’ air transportation of consumer 
products. We used the World Economic Forum Sustainable Aviation 
Fuel Certificate (SAFc) Emissions Accounting and Reporting Guidelines 
to inform our methodology. Our logistics providers calculate the WTW 
emissions reductions reported in the certificates based on supplier-
specific emission factors based on the fuel’s feedstock. We require SAFc 
providers to document the fuel’s feedstock, its chain-of-custody, its 
lifecycle carbon intensity, and proof that all certificates procured were 
allocated exclusively to Alphabet.
“Category 5: Waste generated in operations” includes emissions from 
solid waste generated at our offices, Google-owned and -operated data 
centers, and Google-owned warehouses. The waste is either composted, 
recycled, landfilled, or incinerated (with or without energy recovery). We 
calculate this category’s emissions to also include the optional activity 
of waste transportation, which is embedded in the emission factors we 
use. We use a combination of the waste-type-specific method and the 
average-data method, as defined by the Scope 3 Technical Guidance. The 
waste generation data comes from a combination of data from invoices 
and on-site measurements. Where actual waste data isn’t available for a 
specific facility, we estimate waste tonnage using waste container size 
and pickup frequency, actual waste data from similar facilities, or historical 
waste data from the same facility. We use waste type- and disposal 
type-specific emission factors from the 2025 EPA Emission Factors for 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories. We exclude emissions from wastewater 
treatment from this category.
“Category 6: Business travel” includes emissions from business-
related air, rail, bus, personal vehicle (when the employee’s car is used for 
business purposes), taxi, rideshare, shuttle, and rental car travel—including 
emissions from relocation travel. We also include the optional activity of 
upstream emissions from business travel. We use a combination of the 
distance-based and fuel-based calculation methods, as defined by the 
Scope 3 Technical Guidance. We collect all travel data through either 
our online booking system or a third-party travel agency. To calculate 
emissions from the majority of our air travel, we use the Travel Impact 
Model, an emissions estimation model developed by Google that’s built 
from public and licensable external datasets. We calculate total plane WTW 
emissions and allocate an amount to the employee passenger based on 
the plane’s percentage of occupied seats (i.e., the passenger load factor) 
and the mass of cargo being carried. For all other modes of transport—
including rail, taxi, rideshare, non-U.S. personal vehicles, non-U.S. shuttle 
travel, and a minority of air travel modes—we use the WTW emission 
factors from the 2025 DESNZ UK Government GHG Conversion Factors. 
We calculate emissions from car rental, U.S. personal vehicle, and U.S. 
shuttle travel using well-to-tank (WTT) emission factors from the 2025 
DESNZ UK Government GHG Conversion Factors and tank-to-wheel (TTW) 
emission factors from the 2025 EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories. Approximately 6% of the data we use to calculate category 6 
emissions are obtained from value chain partners.
“Category 7: Employee commuting” includes emissions from the 
transport of our full-time employees between their homes and their 
worksites by passenger car (i.e., carpool, dropoff, taxi, rideshare, or 
single-occupied vehicle), rail, bus, motorcycle, and gas-powered scooter. 
We also include the optional activity of upstream emissions of employee 
commuting. We use the distance-based method, as defined by the Scope 
3 Technical Guidance. We survey our employees to determine typical 
commuting patterns and apply these patterns to our global employee 
population. We use a mode-specific commuting distance obtained from 
the American Public Transportation Association’s 2025 Fact Book and 
the U.S. Department of Transportation’s 2022 National Household Travel 
Survey. We calculate employee commuting emissions using mode-specific 
WTT emission factors from the 2025 DESNZ Government GHG Conversion 
Factors and TTW emission factors from the 2025 EPA Emission Factors for 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories. We use passenger distance-based emission 
factors for shared vehicles (i.e., carpool, taxi, rideshare, rail, bus) to allocate 
the total vehicle emissions to the employee passenger.
“Category 8: Upstream leased assets” includes emissions from 
overhead electricity (e.g., for cooling, lighting, and security systems) 
at colocation facilities where Google is a lessee. These emissions also 
include the optional activity of upstream electricity emissions. We account 
for emissions from our IT load electricity at colocation facilities within 
our scope 2 emissions because we have operational control over the IT 
equipment in these facilities. We similarly account for the emissions of our 
85

other upstream leased assets in scope 2 following the operational control 
approach. For this category, we use the asset-specific method, as defined 
by the Scope 3 Technical Guidance. We estimate overhead electricity 
based on actual asset-specific IT load electricity data (refer to the Scope 
2 emissions section) and power usage effectiveness data (refer to the PUE 
section). For facilities with partially complete PUE data, we estimate the 
remainder using actual PUE data from the reporting period. For facilities 
with no PUE data, we use an average PUE based on the Uptime Institute 
Global Data Center Survey 2025 report. We calculate lifecycle emissions 
from this overhead electricity using transmission and distribution losses 
and emission factors from a mix of the 2025 IEA Emission Factors and 2025 
EPA eGRID Emission Factors. Approximately 69% of the data we use to 
calculate category 8 emissions are obtained from value chain partners.
We report this category’s emissions based on both the GHGP and 
ambition-based adjustments, the latter of which takes into account market 
instrument reductions from our EAC procurement applied to a portion 
of our overhead electricity. We identify the grid and country location of 
electricity consumption for each colocation facility based on known asset 
locations. EACs applied to these activities are from clean energy generated 
within the same market boundary, meeting Criteria 5 (market boundaries) 
and all other relevant criteria from the GHGP’s “quality criteria” provided in 
its Scope 2 Guidance.
“Category 11: Use of sold products” includes direct use-phase emissions 
generated by Google’s flagship consumer devices 192 sold in the reporting 
period that directly consume electricity during use. 193 These emissions 
also include the optional activity of upstream electricity emissions of 
these devices by using LCA emission factors. We perform LCAs that are in 
accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 and are third-party reviewed. 
We publish summaries of the LCA results in Product Environmental 
Reports on Google’s Sustainability Reports webpage. We use laboratory 
power draw measurements, data on use patterns, and common industry 
assumptions on product lifetimes as inputs into the LCA models. We then 
apply LCA electricity emission factors from the 2025 Sphera LCA for 
Experts database to quantify associated emissions.
We report this category’s emissions based on both the GHGP and 
ambition-based adjustments, the latter of which takes into account market 
instrument reductions from our EAC procurement applied to a portion 
of electricity from consumer device use. We estimate the location of 
electricity consumption at the country scale based on sales locations. 
EACs applied to these activities are from clean energy generated within 
the same market boundary, meeting Criteria 5 (market boundaries) and 
all other relevant criteria from the GHGP’s “quality criteria” provided in its 
Scope 2 Guidance, except for Criteria 4 (vintage). Criteria 4 was designed 
for single-year scope 2 activity, requiring the EAC vintage to be “as close as 
possible” to the energy consumption; however, given that the GHGP Scope 
3 Standard requires proactively accounting for the lifetime electricity (i.e., 
current year plus future years) from products sold in the reporting year, it is 
impracticable to apply this criteria to category 11.
Biogenic emissions
In accordance with the GHGP, we report biogenic CO 2 emissions 
separately from the scopes. Biogenic CO 2 emissions are generated from 
combusting biofuel in our operated vehicles, generators, and equipment 
used to construct our data centers. They are also generated as part of our 
food program when crops that have sequestered carbon are harvested 
during production. We calculate biofuel biogenic emissions using 
emission factors from the 2025 EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories and food biogenic emissions using emission factors from 
HowGood’s Product Carbon Footprint software.
If we were to apply adjustments for market instruments similar to our 
ambition-based emissions accounting, biogenic emissions would 
include indirect biogenic emissions from SAFc procurement. However, 
these emissions are neutralized to zero by their corresponding biogenic 
removals. Furthermore, we take a conservative approach and exclude any 
additional removals from feedstock production that might result in net-
negative biogenic emissions.
Other GHG emissions and energy 
metrics
Carbon intensities
We calculate and report two carbon intensity metrics. Emissions per 
dollar of revenue is based on total ambition-based emissions and 
consolidated revenues from the reporting year, rounded to the nearest 
tenth. Emissions per gigawatt-hour is based on total ambition-based 
emissions and total GWh of energy consumed in our operations, rounded 
to the nearest tenth.
Carbon removal and superpollutant credits
In 2025, we did not apply any carbon removal or superpollutant credits to 
our emissions inventory. We plan to begin applying credits in 2030. When 
we do, we’ll provide detailed information about our methodology. In the 
meantime, we’ve reported our total procurement to date for transparency.
Energy and electricity 
We calculate total energy consumption as defined by GRI Disclosure 
302-1e–f. Total energy consumption includes all fuel and natural gas 
consumption; purchased electricity, steam, heating, and cooling; and all 
electricity generated on-site from carbon-free energy technologies. We 
round reported energy consumption metrics to the nearest hundred.
We calculate total electricity consumption as both purchased electricity 
and electricity generated on-site from renewable and non-renewable 
sources. Where actual data isn’t available, we estimate electricity 
consumption, natural gas consumption, and activity from district energy 
systems using square footage of our data centers, offices, and other assets 
and internally developed intensity factors by office type, based on data 
from the reporting period.
Total electricity consumption differs slightly from purchased electricity , 
which is electricity sourced from an electrical grid and purchased from 
a local electric utility company. Consistent with GRI reporting, electricity 
generated on-site is excluded and reported under fuel consumption.
We calculate electricity procured from renewable sources (%) on an 
annual basis by dividing the megawatt-hours of renewable electricity 
86

procured (i.e., through contractual instruments, on-site renewable 
electricity generation, and renewable electricity in the electric grids 
where our facilities are located) by the total megawatt-hours of electricity 
consumed by our global operations. The numerator includes all renewable 
electricity procured, regardless of the market in which we consumed 
the renewable electricity. To achieve our 100% renewable energy match, 
we first consider both our on-site renewable electricity generation and 
the renewable electricity already in the electric grids where our facilities 
are located. We obtain grid renewable electricity mix data from the IEA’s 
2025 World Energy Statistics and the 2024 Association of Issuing Bodies’ 
European Residual Mixes. We then procure renewable electricity through 
contractual instruments. We have a few facilities located in geographies 
where we’re not currently able to source large volumes of renewable 
electricity, so we make up for this by procuring surplus renewable 
electricity in regions where it’s abundant. For example, by procuring 
larger amounts of wind energy in Europe, we compensate for our lack of 
renewable energy purchases in the Asia-Pacific region. Refer to “ Achieving 
Our 100% Renewable Energy Purchasing Goal and Going Beyond ” for 
additional details on our custom criteria and methodology.
Carbon-free energy
Google’s CFE metric is the percentage of Google’s electricity consumption 
on a given regional grid that is matched hourly with CFE. We calculate this 
metric at an hourly granularity, accounting for CFE from our long-term 
clean energy agreements (“Contracted CFE”) as well as CFE from the 
electricity grid (“Consumed Grid CFE”).
We calculate Contracted CFE as a percentage of our electricity 
consumption that’s matched with CFE on an hourly basis from our long-
term clean energy agreements—without consideration of the CFE already 
on the grids where we operate. If Google’s total Contracted CFE exceeds 
our electricity consumption in a given hour and region, the contracted 
CFE consumed by Google is capped at the total electricity consumption; 
this means the CFE percentage in this hour would be 100% and that 
“consumed” Contracted CFE can never exceed 100%. The “excess CFE” 
from the projects under contract that generate MWhs of clean electricity 
above what Google consumes in a particular hour is not counted toward 
our Google CFE percentage; however, it still contributes to decarbonization 
of the broader grid.
Grid CFE is defined as the percentage of energy on the grid that is 
supplied by carbon-free energy sources (e.g., wind or solar) at that 
particular hour. Grid CFE is applied to Google’s electricity consumption 
for any hour where Google’s Contracted CFE is less than the electricity 
consumption. A third party, Electricity Maps, calculates hourly grid CFE 
percentages values. We calculate Consumed Grid CFE as a percentage 
of our electricity consumption in a given market that’s matched with CFE 
from the grid after the application of Contracted CFE. For hours when 
Contracted CFE is equal to or exceeds our electricity consumption, 
Consumed Grid CFE is equal to zero. If our Contracted CFE is less than 
our electricity consumption in an hour, then the Consumed Grid CFE is 
calculated by applying the hourly Grid CFE percentage to the remaining 
electricity consumption and then dividing that result by the total electricity 
consumption in that hour.
Regional average Google CFE across Google data center grid regions 
refers to the percentage of carbon-free energy sources consumed by 
Google’s data centers within a given global region per the previously 
defined methodology.
Our approach to CFE measurement may evolve as we continue to enhance 
our methodology and as data availability improves. For example, we 
currently do not use residual grid mix when calculating grid contributions 
to Google CFE because hourly residual grid mix data doesn’t yet exist.
Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)
PUE is a standard industry ratio that compares the amount of non-
computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power 
distribution) to the amount of energy used to power IT equipment. A PUE of 
2.0 means that for every watt of IT power, an additional watt is consumed 
to cool and distribute power to the IT equipment. A PUE closer to 1.0 means 
nearly all the energy is used for computing.
We take a comprehensive approach to measuring our data center PUE:
• Include all Google-owned and -operated data centers: We 
consider our entire global fleet, not just the newest or most 
efficient facilities.
• Continuous measurement: We measure PUE throughout the year, 
not just during cooler seasons.
• Comprehensive data: We include all sources of overhead energy in 
our calculations.
We begin reporting PUE for data centers once they reach stable operations. 
This fleet-wide data, along with quarterly and trailing 12-month PUE, is 
publicly disclosed on our Data Centers: Efficiency site on a quarterly basis.
Water metrics
Global operational water
Relevant operations for water metrics include our owned and fully leased 
data centers and owned and leased offices and other assets. We report 
water metrics in million gallons, and we round global operational water 
metrics to the nearest million and water use by data center location to the 
nearest hundred thousand gallons. If water use by data center location 
is less than fifty thousand gallons, we round to the nearest ten thousand 
gallons. Our reported water metrics exclude seawater and brackish water 
sources (defined as water with total dissolved solids greater than 1,000 
milligrams per liter).
We calculate water consumption by subtracting water discharge from 
water withdrawal.
Water withdrawal is based on actual metered or invoiced data when it’s 
available. At offices where actual metered or invoiced data isn’t available, 
we estimate water withdrawal using facility square footage and internally 
developed water withdrawal intensity factors by office type based on data 
from the reporting period. At data centers where actual data isn’t available, 
we estimate water withdrawal using partial-year data or by applying 
withdrawal-to-discharge ratios from available data.
87

Water discharge is based on actual metered or invoiced data when 
it’s available. Where actual domestic wastewater discharge data isn’t 
available, we apply an industry-standard 90% discharge flow factor to a 
facility’s domestic water withdrawal to estimate domestic water discharge 
and a 0% discharge flow factor to a facility’s irrigation water withdrawal 
to estimate irrigation water discharge. We apply this water discharge 
estimation methodology at all offices and at data centers where metered 
water discharge data isn’t available. For the remaining data centers 
where actual data isn’t available, we estimate water discharge using 
engineering principles.
Water replenishment 
Our water replenishment metrics are based on the volumetric water 
benefits from projects in our water stewardship project portfolio. We 
engage our independent third-party volumetric benefit quantification 
partner LimnoTech, which applies industry standard methodologies and 
assumptions to calculate two metrics, following the Volumetric Water 
Benefit Accounting 2.0 (VWBA 2.0) methodology. We calculate water 
replenished by estimating the total volumetric water benefits of our 
current water replenishment portfolio during the reporting year. We 
calculate water replenishment capacity in 2030 by estimating the annual 
expected volumetric water benefits of our current water replenishment 
project portfolio throughout each project’s lifespan and assessing how 
much volume we anticipate will be replenished in 2030.
Once projects are funded and completed, we first account for volumetric 
water benefits in the year the project begins delivering benefits and in 
subsequent years—provided there’s reasonable evidence that the project 
is maintained and continues to function as intended, which is confirmed via 
an annual review. If a project has multiple funders, we adjust the volumetric 
water benefit to reflect Google’s proportional financial contribution 
compared to the total project cost. The specific calculations applied to 
each project depend on the project’s objectives, activities implemented, 
and available information, and are aligned with VWBA 2.0.
Water scarcity
To define water scarcity levels, we assess operational water risks for 
data centers and offices. For data centers, we assess water scarcity and 
depletion by applying our data center Water Risk Framework , and assign 
a low, medium, or high water scarcity level. For our office operations, we 
assess water scarcity using the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas and the 
WWF Water Risk Filter, and where appropriate, we adjust the assigned level 
of water scarcity based on local context.
Waste metrics
We report all waste metrics for Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiaries’ data 
centers (that are owned and operated), offices, and other assets under our 
operational control.
We calculate waste generated by quantifying solid waste generated 
that’s either composted, recycled, landfilled, or incinerated (with or 
without energy recovery). The waste generation data comes from invoices 
and on-site measurements. Where actual waste data isn’t available for a 
specific facility, we estimate waste tonnage using waste container size 
and pickup frequency, actual waste data from similar facilities, or historical 
waste data from the same facility. We round reported waste generation 
metrics to the nearest hundred.
We calculate waste diversion by quantifying the percentage of total 
waste generated that is diverted from disposal (defined as diversion of 
waste from landfills or incinerators, with or without energy recovery). 
Our approach to data center waste accounting tracks operational 
waste and integrates data sources and assumptions to account for 
parts and materials that enter our reverse supply chain—inclusive of 
decommissioned data center hardware, racking infrastructure, and 
packaging waste. We also classify waste that’s thermally processed (i.e., 
incinerated) when it leaves our data centers as disposed, rather than 
diverted—even when energy is recovered. For office waste, we actively 
assess contamination rates and exclude contaminated waste from our 
diversion rate calculations—unlike the typical approach, which assumes 
zero contamination in recycling and compost bins. We round reported 
waste diversion metrics to the nearest one percent.
88

Recalculation of previous 
environmental metrics
To maintain consistency over time so that meaningful metric comparisons 
can be made, it may be necessary to recalculate our historical metrics, 
including base year emissions, to the extent a change is significant. 
Our internal recalculation policy, which follows guidance from the GHGP, 
informs how we apply updates made in the current reporting period to 
metrics from prior reporting periods—including our 2019 base year for our 
emissions reduction ambition. Updates may include structural changes, 
changes in calculation methodologies, improvements in data accuracy, 
changes in the categories or activities included in our scope 3 inventory, 
and error corrections. We continually review emissions calculation 
methodologies and are committed to implementing best practices.
In 2025, we recalculated certain previously reported metrics. The primary 
drivers for our recalculations are the following changes in methodologies 
and improvements in data accuracy:
• For emissions associated with our upstream leased assets in scope 
2, specifically IT load electricity at colocation facilities, we obtained 
more accurate electricity consumption data.
• For emissions associated with overhead electricity at colocation 
facilities where Google is a lessee, we estimated overhead load 
using the more accurate IT load electricity data from scope 2 
and facility-level PUE data. This methodology change and data 
accuracy improvement resulted in us accounting for these emissions 
separately within category 8: Upstream leased assets.
• For emissions associated with technical infrastructure hardware 
within category 2: Capital goods, we replaced a portion of our 
spend-based emissions with LCA-based emissions by expanding our 
LCA model coverage to new equipment.
• For certain other metrics, we recalculated due to migration to a new 
data management system that enabled improved data accuracy and 
methodology refinements.
Data measurement and 
uncertainty
All reported values represent the best data available at the time of 
publication. Where actual data isn’t available, we may use estimates. 
We base our estimates and methodologies on historical experience, 
available information, and various other assumptions that we believe to 
be reasonable.
All environmental data found in this report is subject to measurement 
uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature, methods, 
and standards used for determining such data. The methodologies and 
standards for tracking, calculating, and reporting environmental matters—
including emissions, emissions reductions, offsets, and related issues—
continue to evolve. The selection of different but acceptable measurement 
techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision 
of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Assurance
We obtain limited third-party assurance from an independent auditor for 
certain environmental metrics, including select GHG emissions, energy, 
and water metrics as indicated in our Environmental metrics data tables. 
Ernst & Young LLP reviewed these metrics within the Schedules of Select 
Environmental Metrics for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025. 
For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ 
Review Report .
Due to rounding, recalculation, and footing, some of the reported values 
in our Environmental metrics data tables for prior years no longer directly 
match the associated Independent Accountants’ Review Reports or data 
tables from those years.
89

Environmental metrics data tables
Greenhouse gas emissions
GHG emissions194, 195 Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Operational emissions
Scope 1 tCO2e 65,300 50,200 57,600 89,400 75,100 71,700 86,100
Scope 2 (location-based) tCO2e 5,173,000 5,845,000 6,498,700 7,963,700 9,085,700 11,067,100 15,148,700
Scope 2 (market-based) tCO2e 788,200 921,200 1,769,400 2,430,200 3,288,000 2,898,600 2,815,000
Total operational emissions: 
scope 1 and 2 (market-based) tCO2e 853,500 971,400 1,827,000 2,519,600 3,363,100 2,970,300 2,901,100
Scope 3 emissions
Category 1: Purchased goods and services
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 2,837,000 2,512,000 3,000,000 3,583,000 3,972,000 3,584,000 4,023,000
Ambition boundary exclusions tCO2e -1,912,000 -1,787,000 -2,087,000 -2,333,000 -3,048,000 -2,750,000 -2,967,000
Ambition-based tCO2e 925,000 725,000 913,000 1,250,000 924,000 834,000 1,056,000
Category 2: Capital goods and Category 11: Use of sold products 196
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 4,942,000 4,546,000 4,882,000 4,334,000 5,035,000 6,879,000 8,979,000
Ambition boundary exclusions tCO2e -440,000 -430,000 -610,000 -707,000 -966,000 -954,000 -1,284,000
Ambition-based market instrument reductions (EACs) tCO2e 0 0 0 0 0 0 -61,000
Ambition-based tCO2e 4,502,000 4,116,000 4,272,000 3,627,000 4,069,000 5,925,000 7,634,000
Category 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities not included in scope 1 or scope 2
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 430,000 519,000 704,000 971,000 1,230,000 666,000 718,000
Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 476,000 440,000 460,000 533,000 570,000 853,000 1,073,000
Ambition-based market instrument reductions (SAFc) tCO2e 0 0 0 0 0 0 -6,000
Ambition-based tCO2e 476,000 440,000 460,000 533,000 570,000 853,000 1,067,000
Category 5: Waste generated in operations
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 14,000 7,000 7,000 7,000 8,000 12,000 9,000
Category 6: Business travel
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 472,000 180,000 37,000 270,000 291,000 399,000 449,000
Category 7: Employee commuting
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 203,000 52,000 29,000 115,000 96,000 137,000 140,000
Category 8: Upstream leased assets
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 127,000 142,000 213,000 266,000 355,000 437,000 555,000
Ambition-based market instrument reductions (EACs) tCO2e 0 0 0 0 0 0 -56,000
Ambition-based tCO2e 127,000 142,000 213,000 266,000 355,000 437,000 499,000
Total scope 3
GHGP-aligned tCO2e 9,501,000 8,398,000 9,332,000 10,079,000 11,557,000 12,967,000 15,946,000
Total ambition boundary exclusions tCO2e -2,352,000 -2,217,000 -2,697,000 -3,040,000 -4,014,000 -3,704,000 -4,251,000
Total ambition-based market instrument reductions tCO2e 0 0 0 0 0 0 -123,000
Total scope 3 (ambition-based) tCO2e 7,149,000 6,181,000 6,635,000 7,039,000 7,543,000 9,263,000 11,572,000
Total emissions
GHGP-aligned emissions tCO
2e 10,354,500 9,369,400 11,159,000 12,598,600 14,920,100 15,937, 300 18, 847,100
Ambition-based emissions tCO2e 8,002,500 7,152,400 8,462,000 9,558,600 10,906,100 12,233,300 14,473,100
Biogenic emissions tCO2e 45,700 11,500 8,800 37,600 46,700 45,000 45,100
90
Legend 2025 metrics were subject to third-party limited assurance procedures. For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ Review Report.

Carbon intensity (ambition-based) Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Emissions per dollar of revenue 197 tCO2e/million USD ($) 49.4 39.2 32.8 33.8 35.5 35.0 35.9
Emissions per gigawatt-hour 198 tCO2e/GWh 620.2 464.2 459.4 431.0 426.1 379.2 328.6
GHG emissions by type Unit
2025
Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) Scope 2 (location-based)
CO2 tCO2e 58,900 2,793,900 15,062,400
CH4 tCO2e 100 3,500 30,500
N2O tCO2e 200 7,700 45,900
HFCs tCO2e 26,900 9,900 9,900
Total tCO2e 86,100 2,815,000 15,148,700
CO2 tCO2 58,900 2,793,900 15,062,400
CH4 tCH4 2 100 1,100
N2O tN2O 1 29 200
HFCs tHFCs 17 6 6
GHG emissions by region Unit
2025
Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) Scope 2 (location-based)
North America tCO2e 57,400 783,700 11,669,400
Europe, Middle East, & Africa tCO2e 10,300 134,800 1,101,800
Latin America tCO2e 2,500 13,900 130,600
Asia Pacific tCO2e 15,900 1,882,600 2,246,900
Global total tCO2e 86,100 2,815,000 15,148,700
Carbon removal credits199
91
Project type Company Unit Contracted credits Project location Year deal was signed Credit type Market commitment
Biomass carbon 
removal and 
storage (BiCRS)
AMP tCO2e 200,000 United States 2025 Carbon removal Bilateral
Varaha tCO2e 100,000 India 2024 Carbon removal Bilateral
Charm Industrial 200 tCO2e 100,000 United States 2024 Carbon removal Bilateral
CO280 tCO2e 61,226 United States 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Vaulted Deep tCO2e 50,000 United States 2025 Carbon removal Bilateral
Stockholm Exergi tCO2e 41,636 Sweden 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Arbor Energy tCO2e 30,130 United States 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
NULIFE GreenTech tCO2e 24,474 Canada 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Reverion tCO2e 23,671 Germany 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Hafslund Celsio tCO2e 23,664 Norway 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Charm Industrial 201 tCO2e 22,635 United States 2023 Carbon removal Frontier
Vaulted Deep 202 tCO2e 18,786 United States 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
NULIFE GreenTech 203 tCO2e 78 Canada 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Direct air capture 
(DAC)
Holocene tCO
2e 100,000 United States 2024 Carbon removal Bilateral
280 Earth tCO2e 13,301 United States 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Phlair tCO2e 11,135 - 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Legend 2025 metrics were subject to third-party limited assurance procedures. For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ Review Report.

Project type Company Unit Contracted credits Project location Year deal was signed Credit type Market commitment
Enhanced rock 
weathering (ERW) 
and mineralization
Terradot tCO2e 200,000 Brazil 2024 Carbon removal Bilateral
Lithos Carbon tCO2e 31,514 United States 2023 Carbon removal Frontier
Terradot tCO2e 17, 324 Brazil 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Eion tCO2e 10,740 United States 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Karbonetiq tCO2e 1,428 United States 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Alt Carbon tCO2e 185 India 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Silica tCO2e 127 Mexico 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Flux tCO2e 114 Kenya 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Cella Mineral Storage tCO2e 100 Kenya 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Afforestation, 
reforestation, and 
agroforestry
Mombak tCO2e 200,000 Brazil 2025 Carbon removal Symbiosis
Mombak tCO2e 50,000 Brazil 2024 Carbon removal Bilateral
Marine carbon 
dioxide removal 
(mCDR)
Planetary Technologies 204 tCO2e 26,568 Canada 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
CREW Carbon 205 tCO2e 12,851 United States 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
CarbonRun 206 tCO2e 12,695 Canada 2024 Carbon removal Frontier
Ebb Carbon tCO2e 3,500 - 2025 Carbon removal Bilateral
pHathom tCO2e 204 Canada 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
PRONOE tCO2e 168 Spain 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Limenet tCO2e 132 Italy 2025 Carbon removal Frontier
Total contracted carbon removal credits tCO2e 1,388,386
92
Superpollutant credits207
Project type Company Unit
Credits
Project location Year deal 
was signed Credit type Market 
commitmentGWP100 
(Contracted)
GWP20 
(Estimated)
Superpollutant 
elimination 
Cool Effect tCO
2e 750,000 2,250,000 Brazil 2025 Avoided superpollutant emission Bilateral
Recoolit tCO2e 250,000 1,192,500 Indonesia 2025 Avoided superpollutant emission Bilateral
Total superpollutant credits tCO2e 1,000,000 3,442,500

Energy
Energy consumption by source type208 Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Fuel MWh 210,500 380,300 309,300 288,700 318,300
Purchased electricity 209 MWh 18,002,100 21,481,000 24,931,500 31,641,700 43,476,000
Purchased heat 210 MWh 130,100 228,700 278,500 237,600 154,300
Purchased steam MWh 22,600 23,500 14,500 17,100 15,800
Purchased cooling MWh 45,700 54,800 53,000 56,800 57, 300
On-site renewable electricity MWh 8,800 9,600 10,700 20,500 24,800
Total energy consumption MWh 18,419,800 22 ,177,900 25,597,500 32,262,400 44,046,500
Energy consumption by source type Unit
2025
Renewable sources Non-renewable sources Total
Fuel MWh 55,000 263,300 318,300
Purchased electricity 211 MWh 36,194,000 7,282,000 43,476,000
Purchased heat 212 MWh 0 154,300 154,300
Purchased steam MWh 0 15,800 15,800
Purchased cooling MWh 0 57, 300 57, 300
On-site renewable electricity MWh 24,800 0 24,800
Total energy consumption MWh 36,273,800 7,772,700 44,046,500
Electricity consumption213 Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Data centers MWh 17,429, 800 20,616,500 23,980,800 30,637,100 42,415,800
Offices and other facilities MWh 628,500 969,900 1,013,200 1,076,800 1,170,800
Total electricity consumption 214 MWh 18,058,300 21,586,400 24,994,000 31,713,900 43,586,600
Renewable energy consumption215 Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Renewable electricity procured (PPAs and 
other renewable energy agreements) MWh 14,313,200 16,565,400 19,161,300 24,111,400 32,986,300
Renewable electricity procured (on-site) MWh 8,800 9,600 10,700 20,500 24,800
Renewable electricity (grid) MWh 3,736,300 5,011,400 5,822,000 7,582,000 10,575,500
Total electricity procured from renewable 
sources MWh 18,058,300 21,586,400 24,994,000 31,713,900 43,586,600
Global renewable energy match Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Electricity procured from renewable sources % 100 100 100 100 100
Electricity consumption and renewable 
electricity allocated by region Unit
2025
Total electricity consumption216 Total renewable electricity allocated217
North America MWh 32,152,900 28,993,500
Europe, Middle East, & Africa MWh 6,307,300 5,992,000
Latin America MWh 639,700 526,200
Asia Pacific MWh 4,486,700 682,300
Global total MWh 43,586,600 36,194,000
Legend 2025 metrics were subject to third-party limited assurance procedures. For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ Review Report.
93

Global average carbon-free energy (CFE) Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
CFE across Google data centers (hourly) % 65 64 64 66 65
CFE across Google offices (hourly) % - 54 56 60 64
CFE across Google data centers and offices (hourly) % - 64 64 66 65
Regional average Google CFE across Google data center grid regions Unit 2022 2023 2024 2025
North America % 69 68 70 68
United States % 69 68 70 68
Canada & Mexico 218 % 96 96 88 82
Europe, Middle East, & Africa % 76 83 83 81
Europe % 76 84 84 83
Middle East & Africa % 3 4 5 6
Latin America % 90 91 92 90
Asia Pacific % 11 12 12 13
Global CFE across Google data centers % 64 64 66 65
94
Data center grid region CFE219 2025
Country Regional grid Unit Google 
CFE
Contracted 
CFE
Consumed Grid 
CFE
Grid 
CFE
Europe, Middle East, & Africa
Belgium Elia % 79 30 49 72
Denmark Energinet % 92 35 57 89
Finland Fingrid % 98 75 23 95
Germany Germany % 70 19 51 64
Ireland EirGrid % 60 18 42 50
Netherlands Tennet % 82 68 14 55
United Kingdom National Grid ESO % 75 11 64 71
Asia Pacific
Japan TEPCO Power Grid (TEPCO) % 23 7 16 18
Singapore Energy Market Authority of Singapore % 5 0 5 5
Taiwan Taiwan Power Company % 15 1 14 15
Latin America
Chile Sistema Interconectado Central % 90 81 9 62
North America
United States Arizona Salt River Project (SRP) % 86 73 13 56
United States Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) % 83 0 83 84
United States Duke Energy Carolinas (DUKE) % 65 18 47 57
United States Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) % 83 73 10 46
United States Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) % 88 83 5 36
United States NV Energy (NVE) % 65 55 10 32
United States Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection (PJM) % 57 29 28 40
United States South Carolina Regional Grid (SC) % 31 8 23 25
United States Southern Company (SOCO) % 42 14 28 33
United States Southwest Power Pool (SPP) % 84 77 7 47
United States Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) % 58 20 38 47

Data center energy efficiency (PUE)220
Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Country Location
Belgium St. Ghislain PUE 1.08 1.09 1.09 1.08 1.08
Chile Quilicura PUE 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.08
Denmark Fredericia PUE - 1.12 1.10 1.07 1.07
Finland Hamina PUE 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.10 1.10
Ireland Dublin PUE 1.09 1.09 1.08 1.08 1.08
Japan Inzai PUE - - - - 1.12
Netherlands Eemshaven PUE 1.08 1.07 1.08 1.08 1.07
Singapore 1st facility PUE 1.13 1.13 1.13 1.13 1.12
Singapore 2nd facility PUE - 1.21 1.19 1.15 1.14
Taiwan Changhua County PUE 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.13 1.13
United States Berkeley County, South Carolina PUE 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.09
United States Bristol, Virginia PUE - - - - 1.09
United States Central Ohio (Lancaster), Ohio PUE - - - - 1.04
United States Columbus, Ohio PUE - - - 1.06 1.06
United States Council Bluffs, Iowa (1st facility) PUE 1.12 1.12 1.11 1.11 1.11
United States Council Bluffs, Iowa (2nd facility) PUE 1.09 1.08 1.08 1.07 1.08
United States The Dalles, Oregon (1st facility) PUE 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.10
United States The Dalles, Oregon (2nd facility) PUE 1.06 1.07 1.07 1.06 1.06
United States Douglas County, Georgia PUE 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.09
United States Henderson, Nevada PUE - 1.11 1.08 1.09 1.09
United States Jackson County, Alabama PUE 1.13 1.12 1.10 1.10 1.10
United States Lenoir, North Carolina PUE 1.09 1.09 1.09 1.13 1.10
United States Loudoun County, Virginia (1st facility) PUE 1.10 1.09 1.08 1.09 1.08
United States Loudoun County, Virginia (2nd facility) PUE 1.13 1.09 1.08 1.08 1.08
United States Mayes County, Oklahoma PUE 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.11 1.12
United States Midlothian, Texas PUE - 1.16 1.13 1.10 1.10
United States Montgomery County, Tennessee PUE 1.10 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.09
United States New Albany, Ohio PUE - 1.14 1.10 1.07 1.06
United States Omaha, Nebraska PUE - - - - 1.05
United States Papillion, Nebraska PUE - 1.13 1.09 1.09 1.09
United States Storey County, Nevada PUE - - 1.19 1.16 1.14
Average annual fleet-wide PUE across Google-owned and -operated data 
center campuses PUE 1.10 1.10 1.10 1.09 1.09
95

Waste
Waste generation Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Data centers
Waste diverted Metric tons 34,500 27, 800 35,100 39,200 49,200
Waste disposed Metric tons 6,800 6,000 5,900 7,400 6,500
Subtotal waste generated Metric tons 41,300 33,800 41,000 46,600 55,700
Waste diversion rate % 84 82 86 84 88
Offices221
Waste diverted Metric tons 1,200 4,900 8,500 10,200 8,700
Waste disposed Metric tons 700 1,600 2,600 1,900 1,500
Subtotal waste generated Metric tons 1,900 6,500 11,100 12,100 10,200
Waste diversion rate % 63 75 77 84 85
Total
Waste diverted Metric tons 35,700 32,700 43,600 49,400 57,900
Waste disposed Metric tons 7,500 7,600 8,500 9,300 8,000
Total waste generated Metric tons 43,200 40,300 52,100 58,700 65,900
Total waste diversion rate % 83 81 84 84 88
Water
Global operational water use Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Water withdrawal Million gallons 6,297 7,600 8,653 11,011 14,689
Water discharge Million gallons 1,735 2,035 2,301 2,876 3,820
Water consumption Million gallons 4,562 5,565 6,352 8,135 10,869
Water use by data centers and offices Unit
2025
Water withdrawal Water discharge Water consumption
Data centers Million gallons 13,562 3,039 10,523
Offices and other facilities Million gallons 1,127 781 346
Total Million gallons 14,689 3,820 10,869
Freshwater withdrawal from sources at risk of water depletion or scarcity Unit 2025
Low risk of water depletion or scarcity % 72
Medium risk of water depletion or scarcity % 15
High risk of water depletion or scarcity % 13
Freshwater replenishment222 Unit 2022 2023 2024223 2025
Freshwater consumption Million gallons 4,770 5,601 7, 240 9,947
Water replenished Million gallons 271 1,036 4,590 7,717
Water replenished % 6 18 63 78
Water replenishment capacity in 2030 Million gallons 1,317 2,815 8,268 19,722
Legend 2025 metrics were subject to third-party limited assurance procedures. For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ Review Report.
96

Water use by data center location 2025
Location Unit Withdrawal224 Discharge Consumption
Golf course 
equivalents 
(estimated)225
Ashburn, VA Million gallons 76.5 23.3 53.2 <1
Berkeley County, SC Million gallons 988.5 86.8 901.7 6.0
Bristow, VA Million gallons 359.6 92.0 267.6 1.8
Council Bluffs, IA Million gallons 1,746.4 400.4 1,346.0 9.0
The Dalles, OR Million gallons 654.3 185.3 469.0 3.1
Douglas County, GA 
 Potable water 
 Reclaimed wastewater
Million gallons
440.6 
46.3 
394.3
73.5 367.1 2.4
Dublin, Ireland 226 Million gallons 0.5 0.4 0.1 <1
Eemshaven, Netherlands 
 Potable water 
 Non-potable water 227
Million gallons
532.2 
3.6 
528.6
126.5 405.7 2.7
Frankfurt, Germany Million gallons 1.2 1.0 0.2 <1
Fredericia, Denmark Million gallons 88.8 17.0 71.8 <1
Hamina, Finland Million gallons 4.3 3.9 0.4 <1
Hanau, Germany Million gallons 3.4 1.5 1.9 <1
Henderson, NV Million gallons 401.7 162.3 239.4 1.6
Inzai, Japan Million gallons 94.6 21.4 73.2 <1
Jackson County, AL Million gallons 191.0 17.4 173.6 1.2
Lancaster, OH Million gallons 307.1 171.3 135.8 <1
Leesburg, VA Million gallons 238.1 47.4 190.7 1.3
Lenoir, NC Million gallons 378.3 34.0 344.3 2.3
Lockbourne, OH Million gallons 460.8 101.3 359.5 2.4
Mayes County, OK Million gallons 1,396.7 315.3 1,081.4 7. 2
Mesa, AZ Million gallons 19.4 9.7 9.7 <1
Middenmeer, Netherlands Million gallons 13.6 4.3 9.3 <1
Midlothian, TX Million gallons 263.6 43.4 220.2 1.5
Montgomery County, TN Million gallons 499.5 74.8 424.7 2.8
Montreal, Canada 228 Million gallons 0.3 0.2 0.1 <1
New Albany, OH Million gallons 1,008.1 172.4 835.7 5.6
New Haven, IN Million gallons 62.2 24.4 37.8 <1
Omaha, NE Million gallons 241.8 57.9 183.9 1.2
Papillion, NE Million gallons 677.8 129.6 548.2 3.7
Pflugerville, TX 229 Million gallons 0.4 0.3 0.1 <1
Phoenix, AZ 230 Million gallons 0.5 0.4 0.1 <1
Quilicura, Chile Million gallons 278.2 135.2 143.0 <1
Red Oak, TX Million gallons 67.0 16.6 50.4 <1
San Bernardo, Chile 231 Million gallons 0.9 0.8 0.1 <1
St. Ghislain, Belgium 
 Potable water 
 Non-potable water 232
Million gallons
714.4 
27.6 
686.8
263.6 450.8 3.0
Sterling, VA Million gallons 258.4 58.6 199.8 1.3
Storey County, NV 233 Million gallons 66.7 60.0 6.7 <1
Sydney, Australia 234 Million gallons 1.4 1.2 0.2 <1
Wilmer, TX 235 Million gallons 2.6 2.3 0.3 <1
Winschoten, Netherlands Million gallons 0.1 0.05 0.05 <1
Other data center locations 
 Potable water 
 Non-potable water 
 Reclaimed wastewater
Million gallons
1,020.3 
17.4 
479.1 
523.8
101.1 919.2 6.1
Data centers total 
 Potable water 
 Non-potable water 
 Reclaimed wastewater
Million gallons
13,562 
10,949 
1,695 
918
3,039 10,523 70.2
Legend 2025 metrics were subject to third-party limited assurance procedures. For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ Review Report.
97

Engagement
98 Employees
98 Suppliers
100 Customers
101 Researchers and academics
102 Policymakers
105 International and nonprofit organizations
107 Startups
107 Supported organizations
Making progress toward our sustainability ambitions means we can’t 
work in isolation. We rely on deep engagement and partnership across a 
diverse range of stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, customers, 
policymakers, academics, NGOs, and more.
These partnerships help us navigate systemic hurdles that no one 
organization can address alone. By working together, we can more 
effectively scale CFE, advocate for smarter policies, and accelerate the 
global transition to a more sustainable future.
Employees
We empower our employees to lead on sustainability by providing them 
with both the resources and the autonomy to take action and drive change.
We engage employees through multiple internal groups and with 
educational tools. Our largest internal sustainability network, with roughly 
3,500 members, holds frequent climate discussions and champions 
innovative “20% Time” projects—allowing our engineers and other 
specialists to apply their capabilities directly to sustainability challenges 
outside of their core roles. We supplement these hands-on opportunities 
with training, internal campaigns, and dedicated resource hubs for 
continued learning. We also support employee giving by matching 
donations to the charitable organizations they care about most—which 
include many focused on environmental causes.
Outside of the office, our transportation services promote low-carbon 
commuting for Googlers. We offer shuttle services and encourage the 
use of public transit, cycling, and walking to the office. Separately, we’re 
working to minimize the environmental footprint of employee business 
travel, including through supporting Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) 
production at scale.
Suppliers
Through our Supplier Responsibility Program, we’re working to build an 
energy-efficient, low-carbon, circular supply chain. We focus on the areas 
where we can make an immediate and lasting impact, such as helping our 
suppliers improve their environmental performance.
Google’s Supplier Code of Conduct includes requirements that enable 
us to ensure that those we partner with are responsible environmental 
stewards. Along with having suppliers evaluate their operations, we 
perform our own ongoing due diligence and audits with select suppliers 
to verify compliance and understand our supply chain’s current and 
potential risks.
We investigate any issues identified during an audit, and when we find that 
a supplier isn’t conforming to our expectations, we expect the supplier to 
provide a corrective action plan that outlines the root cause of the finding, 
how and when they will resolve the issue, and what steps will be taken to 
prevent recurrence. We determine whether the plan is acceptable based on 
our Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. Lastly, we monitor and verify 
corrective actions are completed in the agreed-upon time frame, with a 
process for escalation if necessary to the Supplier Responsibility Steering 
Team, which comprises our Chief Compliance Officer and leaders from our 
data center, devices, and extended workforce teams.
In 2025, we audited a subset of our suppliers to verify compliance for 
various environmental criteria ( Figure 34):
98

Figure 34.
2025 audit conformance data for environmental criteria
The lighter bars show the percentage of unique audited supplier facilities that had no findings for the listed criteria after their audit. The darker 
bars show the percentage that had no findings after the corrective action plan process was completed.
Legend
Environment
Environmental permits 
and reporting
Hazardous substances
Solid waste
Air emissions
Water management
Energy consumption 
and greenhouse gases
Resource efficiency
Environment Management Systems
Risk assessment 
(and risk management)
Environmental control 
processes
Communications
Performance review and 
continuous improvement
Percentage in conformance before CAP Percentage in conformance after CAP
96.9%96.1%
97.6%
97.6%
95.3%
97.6%
85.8%
99.2%
90.6%
89.0%
86.6%
95.3%
97.6%
97.6%
97.6%
97.6%
87.4%
99.2%
90.6%
91.3%
88.2%
96.1%
99
Reporting environmental data
We work directly with some of our suppliers to collect data. We also 
encourage select suppliers to participate in CDP’s corporate questionnaire 
by asking them to disclose climate and water related data via the CDP 
supply chain platform. Of the suppliers that we invited to respond 
in 2025, 97% responded and 91% reported having GHG emissions 
reduction targets.
236
To support these efforts, we work with our suppliers to improve their 
environmental data collection and accounting, including for their 
scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. For example, we provide training on CDP 
reporting, setting carbon reduction and renewable electricity targets, 
and GHG accounting. In 2025, we hosted summits for our suppliers 
where we discussed topics including circularity, life cycle assessment 
methodologies, clean energy adoption, emissions reductions, biodiversity 
and nature, and tools we offer to assist suppliers.
Restricted substances
We restrict many hazardous substances through our Restricted 
Substances Specification, using hazard-based requirements for priority 
materials. We ensure our suppliers have processes in place to detect and 
prevent these substances from entering our products and manufacturing 
processes. We update our Restricted Substances Specification as new 
chemical risk information comes to light, and in 2025, we made several 
changes to strengthen our supplier expectations in alignment with 
new science.
We also maintain a Responsible Chemical Management program , which 
includes assessments, guidance, and training resources to help suppliers 
better mitigate occupational and environmental risks related to the 
chemicals they use.

Customers
Accelerating progress requires open collaboration, so we’re helping our customers reach their 
sustainability goals by sharing the tools and resources they need to measure and improve 
their impact.
Google Cloud
Google Cloud offers organizations Cloud and AI products and solutions to drive impact 
for their business and sustainability. We empower our customers through a “sustainable 
infrastructure framework” that integrates AI-driven intelligence across every layer of their 
operations, enabling them to achieve meaningful sustainable outcomes.
• Optimizing infrastructure: We empower organizations to build more sustainable 
infrastructure and resilient value chains by embedding AI-driven intelligence at the point 
of origin. By optimizing resource management, Google Cloud and our partners help 
industries—from manufacturing to food retail—predict climate risks with unprecedented 
precision. For example, our partnership with Cropin provides retailers with “plot-level” 
insights from a dataset that spans one billion acres of farmland. This foresight enables 
brands to accurately predict harvest windows, minimize food waste, and proactively 
mitigate disruptions. Furthermore, these predictive capabilities provide the data to 
validate sustainability claims and ensure regulatory compliance, fostering a more 
transparent, future-ready global food system.
• Measuring for sustainable outcomes: We provide organizations with AI-powered 
insights to strengthen business resilience and track progress toward sustainability 
goals. For example, in 2024, Equinix saw nearly 50% year-over-year growth in customer 
sustainability requests, making responding with manual spreadsheets no longer a viable 
option. 237 By partnering with Google Cloud, it built a Sustainability Data Lake on BigQuery 
to automate data ingestion from over 240 global sites, transforming a weeks-long 
manual cleaning process into a source of on-demand, actionable insights.
Customer carbon footprints
In addition to equipping Cloud customers, we’re also giving Google Workspace and Google Ads 
customers the data they need to measure and manage their environmental impact. These tools 
turn complex footprint data into clear insights, helping organizations that use our products find 
the most efficient path forward:
• Google Workspace: Our Google Workspace carbon footprint report provides 
data on total and monthly carbon emissions based on the use of various 
Google Workspace applications.
• Google Ads: We offer Carbon Footprint for Google Ads to help advertising customers 
better measure their emissions from using Google advertising products including 
Display & Video 360, Search Ads 360, Campaign Manager 360, and Google Ads. This 
provides carbon emissions reporting data aligned with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
The reports provide detailed breakouts of scope 1, scope 2 (both market- and location-
based), and scope 3 emissions—allocated at the account level.
100

Researchers and academics
Solving complex environmental challenges relies on rigorous science. We partner with researchers and academics to accelerate innovation in areas 
like energy, resilience, AI, and more. In 2025 and early 2026, we published our own studies or collaborated with academics and other partners on the 
following research:
Topic Research
Agriculture
• “AlphaEarth Foundations: An Embedding Field Model for Accurate and Efficient Global Mapping from Sparse Label Data,” arXiv, 
September 2025.
• “Farm-Level, In-Season Crop Identification for India,” arXiv, June 2025.
• “Harvesting AlphaEarth: Benchmarking the Geospatial Foundation Model for Agricultural Downstream Tasks,” arXiv, December 2025.
Climate 
intelligence
• “AI-assisted Scientific Assessment: A Case Study on Climate Change,” arXiv, February 2026.
• “Earth AI: Unlocking Geospatial Insights with Foundation Models and Cross-Modal Reasoning,” arXiv, February 2026.
• “Regional Climate Risk Assessment from Climate Models Using Probabilistic Machine Learning,” arXiv, June 2025.
Computing
• “Life-Cycle Emissions of AI Hardware: A Cradle-To-Grave Approach and Generational Trends,” arXiv, February 2025.
• “Measuring the Environmental Impact of Delivering AI at Google Scale,” arXiv, August 2025.
• “Overview of F-GHG and Nitrous Oxide Semiconductor Abatement Technologies,” Semiconductor Climate Consortium, February 2025.
• “Sustained Neutralization of the Warming Response to Emissions through a Portfolio of GHG Mitigation Strategies,” cdrXiv, May 2026.
Energy
• “24/7 Carbon-free Electricity Matching Accelerates Adoption of Advanced Clean Energy Technologies,” Joule, February 2025.
• “AI-driven Grid Optimization Can Reduce Emissions,” Tackling Climate Change with Machine Learning Workshop at NeurIPS 2025, 
December 2025.
Nature
• “Advancing Interdisciplinary Science of Gender is Key to the Success of Blue Carbon Initiatives,” Nature Communications, 
November 2025.
• “AI for Nature: How AI Can Democratize and Scale Action on Nature,” World Resources Institute, November 2025.
• “Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks for Species Distribution Modeling,” arXiv, May 2025.
• “Natural Forests of the World—a 2020 Baseline for Deforestation and Degradation Monitoring,” Nature, November 2025.
• “Perch 2.0: The Bittern Lesson for Bioacoustics,” arXiv, January 2026.
• “Perch 2.0 Transfers ’Whale’ to Underwater Tasks,” arXiv, December 2025.
Transportation
• “Day-of-the-week Awareness in Time of Day Breakpoints for Traffic Light Plans,” IEEE International Conference on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, 2025.
• “Efficacy of Scalable Airline-led Contrail Avoidance,” arXiv, March 2026.
• “Study of Arterials in the City of Rio De Janeiro for Traffic Coordination,” 2025 9th International Conference on Models and Technologies 
for Intelligent Transportation Systems (MT-ITS), 2025.
• “Traffic Simulations: Multi-City Calibration of Metropolitan Highway Networks,” arXiv, January 2025.
Weather
• “A Probabilistic Framework for Learning Non-Intrusive Corrections to Long-Time Climate Simulations From Short-Time Training Data,” 
Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems, January 2026.
• “An Operational Deep Learning System for Satellite-Based High-Resolution Global Nowcasting,” arXiv, October 2025. 
• “Dynamical-generative Downscaling of Climate Model Ensembles,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, April 2025.
• “Neural General Circulation Models for Modeling Precipitation,” Science Advances, January 2026. 
• “Skillful Joint Probabilistic Weather Forecasting from Marginals,” arXiv, June 2025.
101

Policymakers
Public policy and advocacy
Policy measures and corporate commitments will continue to play an important role in driving emissions reductions in the next decade. We’ve shared 
energy and sustainability policy positions on the following topics:
• U.S. energy policy: Powering a New Era of American Innovation
• European AI and climate: The AI Opportunity for Europe’s Climate Goals - A Policy Roadmap
• Carbon-free energy: A Policy Roadmap for 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy
• Climate action with AI: A Summary of Critical Policy Outcomes in Accelerating Climate Action with AI
• Device repairability: Google & Repairability
The following table includes a detailed list of our energy and sustainability policy engagements in 2025:
Global and cross-cutting initiatives
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) 30th Conference of the Parties (COP-30): Google participated in COP-30, in Belem, Brazil, in 
engagements with officials and sustainability industry leaders, partners, and priority stakeholders.
AI Action Summit: Google leadership joined over 80 Heads of State at the AI Action Summit in Paris, France, to discuss our bold and responsible approach to AI development, 
including for the environment. In various discussions with policymakers, Google leaders highlighted the potential for AI to accelerate emissions reductions while addressing the 
need to manage AI’s energy and emissions footprint. To support these efforts, Google also announced our participation in the IEA Observatory on Energy and AI .
IEA Partnership: Google collaborated with the IEA on its ongoing Energy and AI Initiative to support global data and analysis on the intersection of “AI for Energy,” and “Energy 
for AI.”
Clean Energy Ministerial: Google engaged with Energy Ministers and senior energy officials at the 2025 Clean Energy Ministerial in Busan, Korea, in August 2025 to advocate 
for policies that support clean energy deployment, infrastructure upgrades, and the adoption of AI tools in the energy sector.
United States
Engagement on U.S. federal energy and sustainability policy
Executive branch engagement: Google engaged with the White House and several key federal agencies—including the Departments of State, Defense, Energy, and 
Transportation, and the Environmental Protection Agency—to discuss the role of AI and other digital technologies in energy systems. These engagements focused on unlocking 
the energy supply needed to power growth and innovation.
Advocacy on Energy in the “One Big Beautiful Bill” Act (OBBBA): Google had multiple engagements with the White House and Congressional offices during the legislative 
reconciliation process that led to enactment of OBBBA. These engagements included advocacy to support continued deployment of carbon-free resources, avoiding 
disruption to existing electricity project pipelines and limitations on future electricity supply options, and continued investment in U.S. electricity infrastructure.
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Requests for Information (RFIs): Google submitted responses to several DOE RFIs, including its November 2025 RFI on Accelerating 
Speed to Power/Winning the Artificial Intelligence Race . Google’s response to this Speed to Power RFI centered on three critical needs: removing electric transmission grid 
bottlenecks in priority regions to enable energy growth for AI, ensuring electricity load forecasts reflect financial reality to enable accurate market signals, and speeding 
deployment of AI data centers with better integration of large load flexibility in energy markets.
Federal Legislative Engagement on Energy: Google supported a number of energy bills that support rapid growth of electricity and infrastructure for AI, including the 
Standardizing Permitting and Expediting Economic Development Act (“SPEED Act”), the High-Capacity Grid Act , the Advancing Grid-Enhancing Technologies (GETs) Act , 
the Innovative Mitigation Partnerships for Asphalt and Concrete Technologies Act (“IMPACT Act”), and the IMPACT Act 2.0 . In addition, Google responded to Representative 
Fedorchak’s RFI on AI and energy , providing input on data center energy trends and policy recommendations to accelerate innovation and investment in energy technologies. 
Google advocated with numerous Congressional offices in support of comprehensive permitting reform legislation that facilitates energy infrastructure deployment timelines 
and meet grid modernization and expansion imperatives. Google also responded to a written inquiry from Senators Warren, Van Hollen, and Blumenthal regarding data center 
energy supply.
Powering a New Era of American Innovation: Google leaders published a white paper laying out a U.S. policy agenda to unlock American energy supply to power AI 
innovation and growth. The paper outlines measures that can accelerate innovation in new energy resources, optimize the existing electricity grid, unlock the construction of 
new transmission lines, and develop a labor force to construct energy infrastructure.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) engagement on large load integration: Google actively engaged with FERC, including participation in the Advance Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking on the Interconnection of Large Load to the Interstate Transmission System . Google submitted comments advocating for an approach that gives new 
large loads flexibility to connect to the grid without negatively impacting reliability and affordability for other consumers. Google also participated in a proceeding addressing 
operational reliability and market design to ensure reliable and affordable large load integration.
Western energy market expansion: In 2025, Google championed the enactment of California’s Assembly Bill 825, a critical milestone authorizing an independent Regional 
Organization to oversee the California Independent System Operator’s (CAISO) energy markets as part of a broader move toward regional market integration in the Western U.S.
102

United States
Engagement on U.S. state energy and sustainability policy
Clean Transition Tariff (CTT, or utility rate): In 2025, Google’s first-of-its-kind clean energy partnership with NV Energy moved from concept to reality. The core of the 
partnership is a utility rate—also referred to as a CTT—which can be replicated in many U.S. electricity markets. Approved for implementation by Nevada energy regulators, the 
agreement advances 115 MW of enhanced geothermal energy while shielding other ratepayers from associated costs. This approach is gaining nationwide momentum, with 
multiple utilities and jurisdictions—including those in Indiana and Kansas—committing to developing similar frameworks.
Utility regulation: Google participated in energy regulatory proceedings and dockets across the United States to advocate for cost-effective clean energy adoption. 
Specifically, we advocated for the Capacity Commitment Framework (CCF), a contract model that enables large energy users to fund the specific infrastructure needed to 
serve them through long-term financial promises and guaranteed minimum payments. This amount-based approach allows utilities to build new capacity with confidence. By 
requiring upfront collateral and transparent fees, the model protects everyday ratepayers from the costs of infrastructure development or potential project cancellations.
Regulatory frameworks for decarbonization: Google led discussions with the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners on how our 24/7 CFE ambition can 
be a supportive framework for cost-effective grid decarbonization. These discussions highlighted the CCF as an essential tool for large energy users to responsibly fund 
infrastructure growth without burdening other ratepayers. Google also emphasized the importance of demand-side solutions, such as demand response, to help balance the 
grid and optimize resource use, while showcasing our energy impact work, which supports energy affordability by funding programs like pre-weatherization, bill assistance, and 
energy efficiency upgrades for local communities.
Engagement with coalitions and sustainability initiatives
Electricity customer coalitions: In 2025, Google partnered with the Electricity Customer Alliance (ECA), the Corporate Energy Buyers Association (CEBA), and the Data 
Center Coalition (DCC) to advocate for sound federal and state policies that accommodate load growth while maintaining reliability, affordability, and sustainability.
Energy and technology trade associations: Google is a member of dozens of trade associations representing the technology and energy sectors, and we partnered with 
them throughout 2025 to advance energy and sustainability policy.
Europe
Engagement on European energy and sustainability policy
Sustainability rating scheme for data centers: Google engaged with EU policymakers through DIGITALEUROPE and Cloud Infrastructure Ireland (CII) to inform the 
development of a new EU-wide data center sustainability rating scheme under an upcoming delegated act.
EU Grids Package: Google submitted a response to the public consultation on the EU Grids Package and the Commission Guidance on Grid Connections. Google provided 
recommendations for how the EU can build a robust, efficient, and interconnected grid, including improving and extending timelines for proactive grid planning, accelerating 
generator-side and load-side interconnection, and speeding up grid infrastructure development through permitting reforms. Beyond physical expansion, Google also 
recommended focusing on deploying grid-enhancing technologies and increasing load flexibility solutions. As part of this effort, Google supported RE-Source, WindEurope, 
and SolarPower Europe to contribute to the Commission’s guidance on the design of two-way contracts for difference.
EU Strategic Roadmap on Digitalisation and AI in the Energy Sector: Google submitted a response to this public consultation highlighting the role of AI in the energy 
transition. Our policy recommendations focused on accelerating AI deployment within the energy sector by improving data standardization and data access while protecting 
cybersecurity and privacy, and better integrating data centers into the European energy system.
Climate resilience and risk management: Google provided feedback to the European Commission’s Call for Evidence on climate resilience and risk management, 
emphasizing how AI can support the EU’s climate adaptation efforts. The submission highlighted AI’s ability to improve responses to extreme weather events through enhanced 
weather and flood forecasting, wildfire tracking, extreme heat response, and geospatial analysis.
Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM): Google submitted comments to the European Commission’s CBAM consultation, highlighting the importance of accurate 
and granular electricity emissions accounting.
Friends of Europe Climate and Energy Summit: Google participated in the Friends of Europe Climate and Energy Summit to highlight the AI opportunity for Europe’s energy 
goals and the role of grids in digital transformation.
Engagement with coalitions and sustainability initiatives
RE-Source Platform: In 2025, Google continued supporting and working with RE-Source Platform to advocate for corporate clean energy buyers within European energy 
markets. We presented to the European Parliament on the importance of PPAs in achieving Europe’s energy and decarbonization goals.
European Green Digital Coalition (EGDC): Google remained an active supporter of the EGDC, contributing specifically to the simplification of the Net Carbon Impact 
Assessment Methodology .
European 24/7 Hub: Google supported the launch of the European 24/7 Hub with Eurelectric, an initiative to educate European buyers and suppliers on 24/7 CFE. In 2025, the 
platform was rebranded as the Next-Level CFE Hub .
24/7 Carbon-Free Coalition: Google continued our active membership in the Climate Group’s 24/7 Carbon-Free Coalition , which supports companies matching their hourly 
electricity demand with local carbon-free electricity.
Corporate Leaders Group (CLG) Europe: Google participated in CLG Europe to advance policies supporting Europe’s decarbonization objectives.
Asia Pacific
Engagement on Asian energy and sustainability policy
Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Energy Ministerial Meeting: During the 2025 APEC Energy Ministerial Meeting in Busan, Korea, Google engaged with regional 
energy ministers and senior officials to advocate for policies supporting clean energy deployment, infrastructure upgrades, and the adoption of AI tools in the energy sector.
103

Asia Pacific
Energy and sustainability policy engagement at regional summits: Google engaged with policymakers at the ASEAN Energy Business Forum, Renewable Energy Markets 
Asia, and Singapore International Energy Week. Our advocacy focused on accelerating grid decarbonization in APAC and enabling 24/7 CFE supply for operations. We hosted a 
roundtable during the Climate Group’s Asia Action Summit 2025 , focused on accelerating 24/7 CFE by identifying corporate procurement gaps and fostering strategic industry 
partnerships across APAC.
Semiconductor value chain convening: Google co-organized the 2025 SEMI Global Executive Summit in Tokyo, Japan, bringing together senior executives to accelerate 
semiconductor industry decarbonization . The summit focused on driving collective action across clean electricity, upstream materials, and F-GHG substitution and abatement. 
White paper on expanding clean energy procurement in APAC: Google supported a paper by the Asia Clean Energy Coalition (ACEC) and the Corporate Energy Buyers 
Association (CEBA) on how corporate PPAs can expand clean energy procurement and accelerate the clean energy transition in Asia Pacific.
Net-Zero Korea study: Google co-funded Net-Zero Korea, a three-year study by the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology and Princeton University aimed at 
accelerating industrial decarbonization and strengthening energy policy decisions for the semiconductor value chain.
APEC policy brief on AI and energy: Google sponsored the APEC policy brief , Using AI to Power Up Efficient and Resilient Energy Systems . The paper identifies policy 
opportunities to accelerate AI deployment for electricity grids, specifically through the development of shared rules and standards on data transparency, use, and 
accountability. The paper was featured at several major summits, including the APEC Energy Ministerial Meeting, Singapore International Energy Week, and the ASEAN Business 
and Investment Summit.
Sustainable data centers: Google contributed to the ASEAN Guide for Sustainable Data Centre Development , a strategic resource to help policymakers and regulators 
navigate the rapid growth of digital infrastructure in Southeast Asia while ensuring economic competitiveness and climate resilience.
Engagement with coalitions and sustainability initiatives
APAC clean energy coalitions: Google engaged with energy policymakers and regulators through several regional initiatives—such as the ACEC, the SEMI Energy 
Collaborative, and the Japan Climate Leaders Partnership—to promote cost-effective access to clean energy resources.
Trade associations and third-party groups
We belong to many energy- and sustainability-focused third-party groups through which we engage on sustainability policy issues around the world. Refer 
to Figure 35 for an overview of our participation in these groups.
Figure 35. 
Select list of energy and sustainability-focused trade associations, memberships, and groups in which Google 
participates
• Advanced Energy United
• Advanced Power Alliance
• American Council on 
Renewable Energy
• Americans for a Clean Energy 
Grid
• Asia Clean Energy Coalition
• Beyond Alliance
• Business Environment 
Leadership Council of the 
Center for Climate and 
Energy Solutions
• Carolinas Clean Energy 
Business Association
• Circular Electronics 
Partnership
• Clean Air Task Force
• Clean Grid Alliance
• Corporate Eco Forum
• Corporate Energy Buyers 
Association (formerly 
the Clean Energy Buyers 
Association)
• Corporate Leaders Group 
Europe
• Data Center Coalition
• DIGITALEUROPE
• Electricity Customer Alliance
• Electric Power Research 
Institute
• Energy Alabama
• Energy Systems Integration 
Group
• EnergyTag
• Eurelectric
• Global Enabling Sustainability 
Initiative 
• Green Industrial Grids 
Association
• Hydrogen Europe
• Japan Climate Leaders 
Partnership
• Japan Renewable Energy 
Association for Sustainable 
Power Supply
• Keystone Energy Board
• Long Duration Energy Storage 
Council
• Marktoffensive Erneuerbare 
Energien
• North Carolina Sustainable 
Energy Association
• Nuclear Innovation Alliance
• Princeton ZERO Lab
• RE100
• Renewable Northwest
• RE-Source Platform
• SEMI Energy Collaborative
• Singapore Carbon Market 
Alliance
• Singapore Sustainable 
Finance Association
• smartEn
• SolarPower Europe
• Southeast Asia Partnership 
for Adaptation through 
Water
• TechUK Climate Council
• Trellis Network
• U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency Green Power 
Partnership
• WindEurope
104

International and nonprofit organizations
Google engages in many international partnerships and with many nonprofit organizations to accelerate progress toward shared sustainability initiatives. 
Some of our key partnerships include:
Organization Details
24/7 Carbon-Free 
Energy Compact
In 2021, Google helped launch the 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy 
Compact in partnership with Sustainable Energy for All and 
UN-Energy to help grow the movement to enable zero-
carbon electricity.
Ad Net Zero
Google is a founding supporter of and active participant 
in Ad Net Zero—a global sustainability program to help 
decarbonize the advertising industry.
Aspen Institute
Google is a supporter of the Aspen Institute’s Energy & 
Environment program—a trusted, non-partisan platform 
for collaboration and dialogue on complex energy and 
environmental challenges.
Bonneville 
Environmental 
Foundation (BEF)
Google has partnered closely with BEF since 2019 on the 
implementation of our water strategy, including identifying 
and facilitating impactful water replenishment and watershed 
health projects globally, with a variety of local organizations 
and partners.
Building 
Transparency
We work with Building Transparency to advance the 
development of tools to measure, model, and track the 
embodied carbon of building materials.
Business for Social 
Responsibility 
(BSR)
Google has been a BSR member for many years, and we 
participate in a number of BSR collaboration initiatives.
C40 Cities C40 is a strategic partner of Google’s Environmental 
Insights Explorer.
Center for Climate 
and Energy 
Solutions (C2ES)
Google has been a member of the Business Environment 
Leadership Council (BELC) of C2ES since 2022, which 
supports U.S. energy and sustainability policies and 
technologies that foster thriving economies and shared 
prosperity, founded on abundant, affordable, and reliable 
clean energy and a safe climate. Google participates in 
events and discussions hosted by the group in a variety 
of forums.
ChemFORWARD
Google has collaborated with ChemFORWARD to 
commission chemical hazard assessments that populate 
the shared Data Trust, expanding the industry’s knowledge 
beyond regulated chemicals since 2019. In 2024, to further 
accelerate safer chemistry across the industry, we co-funded 
the Safer Chemistry Impact Fund to embed safer chemistry 
metrics and tools as the standard operating system in 
supply chains.
Climate Group 
24/7 Carbon-Free 
Coalition
In 2024, Google supported the pilot launch of the Climate 
Group’s 24/7 Carbon-Free Coalition at Climate Week NYC, a 
new initiative designed to enable energy consumers to move 
toward 24/7 CFE.
Coalition to End 
Wildlife Trafficking 
Online
In 2018, Google and other companies launched the Coalition 
to End Wildlife Trafficking Online, collectively creating a 
wildlife policy framework for online trade and an industry-
wide approach to reduce online wildlife trafficking.
CDP
At Google, we’ve been reporting our carbon footprint to CDP 
since 2009. We’ve also collaborated with CDP on various 
initiatives in the past, such as hosting its annual conference, 
hosting a hackathon, and launching CDP scores in Google 
Finance. In 2025, Google.org Fellows supported CDP in 
building an innovative, AI-powered tool to transform how 
cities, states, and regions use CDP’s environmental dataset to 
reduce risk and drive action for the future.
Organization Details
Corporate 
Energy Buyers 
Association 
(CEBA)
Google was actively involved in the creation of CEBA in 2018, 
and a Google representative was the Chair of CEBA’s board 
in 2025.
Climate Neutral 
Data Centre Pact 
(CNDCP)
Google helped establish the CNDCP, a coalition of European 
data center operators that commit to a set of voluntary 
sustainability targets to set them on a path toward 
climate neutrality.
Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation (EMF)
Google joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Network 
in 2015 and, as a Network Partner, has jointly co-authored 
thought leadership white papers and case studies covering 
safer chemistry, building deconstruction and reuse, 
electronics, and the role of AI in the circular economy.
Environmental 
Defense Fund 
(EDF)
From 2012 to 2022, Google partnered with EDF to map air 
quality using Street View cars in the United States, Europe, 
and Southeast Asia—as well as to detect methane leaks 
in U.S. cities. In 2024, we launched a partnership with 
EDF’s MethaneSAT to help power its satellite data analysis, 
quantify leaks from oil and gas infrastructure around the 
globe, and put methane insights into the hands of scientists 
and decision-makers with Earth Engine. And while contact 
with MethaneSAT was lost, we remain committed to our 
partnership with EDF.
EnergyTag
Google is an active member of the EnergyTag Advisory 
Committee, working to enable markets, publish standards, 
and encourage policies critical for the adoption of Granular 
Certificates and hourly matching.
European Green 
Digital Coalition 
(EGDC)
Google is a member of the EGDC—a group of technology 
companies committed to supporting the green and digital 
transformation of the European Union and to harnessing 
the emission-reducing potential of digital solutions for all 
other sectors.
Exponential 
Roadmap Initiative 
(ERI)
In 2021, Google joined ERI and the UN Race to Zero Campaign , 
the largest ever alliance committed to halving emissions by 
2030 and achieving net-zero emissions by no later than 2050.
Frontier
In 2022, Google co-founded Frontier, an advance market 
commitment that will accelerate the development of carbon 
removal technologies by guaranteeing future demand. As 
one of the founding members of this public benefit LLC, 
we aim to use Frontier as a catalyst for the most effective 
technologies in long-duration carbon removal.
Global Covenant 
of Mayors for 
Climate & Energy 
(GCoM)
Google’s Environmental Insights Explorer (EIE) was developed 
in partnership with GCoM through a shared vision to support 
city climate action with useful and accessible data and 
insights. GCoM is currently a strategic partner, sharing 
EIE data with its alliance of cities and local governments 
to accelerate climate action—in particular through the 
Data Portal for Cities, its free tool to access data and build 
greenhouse gas emissions inventories.
Global 
Renewables 
Alliance (GRA)
Google is a supporter of GRA’s campaign to triple renewable 
energy globally by 2030, and has supported efforts to 
encourage high-impact corporate clean energy purchasing 
as a key strategy to accelerate progress toward this goal.
105

Organization Details
ICLEI Africa
ICLEI Europe
ICLEI USA
Google is a partner of the regional secretariats of ICLEI—
Local Governments for Sustainability—in Africa, Europe, and 
the United States. Through these partnerships, ICLEI regional 
teams support sustainable development projects in cities, 
using data and insights from EIE.
iMasons Climate 
Accord
Google is a founding member and an active participant 
in the Governing Body of the iMasons Climate Accord, a 
coalition united on carbon reduction in digital infrastructure.
imec’s Sustainable 
Semiconductor 
Technologies and 
Systems (SSTS) 
program
Google is a founding member of imec’s SSTS program, 
which seeks to drive innovation needed to decarbonize the 
semiconductor industry at scale using transparent data, 
methods, and early-stage trial testing of promising new 
technologies and manufacturing processes.
International 
Energy Agency 
(IEA)
We’ve partnered with the IEA on multiple energy-related 
projects, including research on advancing decarbonization 
through clean electricity procurement. We also surfaced 
information on Google Search about the European energy 
crisis, providing energy-saving tips and electric vehicle and 
home heating information. In 2024, Google partnered with 
the IEA and others on a two-year “ Energy and AI ” initiative 
to explore the challenges of meeting electricity demand for 
AI, as well as the opportunities for using AI to decarbonize 
the energy sector.
Linux Foundation 
Energy
Since 2022, we’ve partnered with LF Energy to develop 
standards that accelerate secure and scalable data 
portability for the energy transition. In 2024, we focused on 
industry engagement through webinars and conferences to 
gather feedback from key stakeholder groups.
Net Zero 
Innovation Hub 
for Data Centers
Google is a founding member of the Net Zero Innovation 
Hub for Data Centers, which partners data center operators 
with technology providers to accelerate the journey toward 
net zero.
Next-Level CFE 
Hub
Google supported the launch of the European 24/7 Hub with 
Eurelectric, which provides education on the “what, why, 
and how” of 24/7 CFE for buyers and suppliers in Europe. 
The Hub was rebranded as the “Next-Level CFE Hub” in 
2025, and Google remains an active member.
ReFED
Since 2018, Google has been working with ReFED—a 
nonprofit with a mission to catalyze the food system toward 
evidence-based action to stop wasting food—supporting its 
technical teams and exploring ways to convene businesses.
Responsible 
Business Alliance 
(RBA)
Google works with the Responsible Business Alliance 
on supply chain sustainability across a range of topics, 
including responsible labor and environmental impact. As 
an example, in 2024, Google supported the development 
of the Waste Minimization Toolkit to train supply chain 
facility personnel on waste stream tracking, reporting, 
and management.
SEMI’s 
Semiconductor 
Climate 
Consortium
Google is an active leader of SEMI’s Semiconductor Climate 
Consortium working groups, championing its mission to 
speed the decarbonization of the semiconductor value 
chain through a shared commitment to collaboration, 
transparency, ambition, and action.
Organization Details
Superpollutant 
Action Initiative
In 2026, Google co-founded the Superpollutant Action 
Initiative to support projects that eliminate superpollutants, 
such as methane and fluorinated gases.
Symbiosis
In 2024, Google co-founded Symbiosis, a new coalition of 
corporate buyers committed to following the latest science 
to scale high-quality, nature-based carbon removal.
The Nature 
Conservancy 
(TNC)
Google has supported TNC on water stewardship projects 
in Chile, India, and the United States. Separately, Google.org 
has provided support to TNC for nature-related projects, 
including the restoration of giant kelp forest ecosystems 
across south-eastern Australia.
United Nations 
Food and 
Agriculture 
Organization 
(UN FAO)
Since 2015, Google and the UN FAO have partnered on 
forest monitoring , natural resources, livelihoods, and the 
environment. The Forest Data Partnership was co-founded 
by Google, the UN FAO, and other partners to advance crop 
mapping and address commodity-driven deforestation 
and degradation.
United Nations 
Environment 
Programme 
(UNEP)
In collaboration with UNEP and the European Commission 
Joint Research Centre, Google launched the Freshwater 
Ecosystems Explorer . This platform enables all countries 
to freely measure and monitor freshwater resources—
toward Sustainable Development Goal 6.6.1 —as well as 
learn when and where surface water is changing. In 2023, 
Google.org supported the UNEP International Methane 
Emissions Observatory to develop a new AI-based 
automated methane emission detection, alerting, and 
notification system.
World Business 
Council for 
Sustainable 
Development 
(WBCSD)
A member of the WBCSD since 2019, Google actively 
participates in initiatives related to improving well-being for 
both people and the planet—including accelerating climate- 
and circularity-related standards and policy progress. Three 
Google initiatives were selected as part of WBCSD’s COP30 
Business Action Bank as examples of corporate leadership 
in high-impact solutions. And in 2025, WBCSD recognized 
CircularNet—an open-source machine learning model 
developed by Google—as a “Circular Transition Indicator 
Enabling Solution.”
World Economic 
Forum (WEF)
Google partners with WEF on various initiatives, including 
the First Movers Coalition , the Chief Sustainability Leaders 
Community , Tech for Climate Adaptation, the Alliance for 
Clean Air, the Global Wildfire Leadership Network , and 
the AI Governance Alliance with a focus on the AI and 
energy workstream.
World Resources 
Institute (WRI)
Google has supported WRI since 2007. Some key WRI 
projects include developing a near-real-time land cover 
dataset ( Dynamic World ), launching deforestation 
monitoring and alerts ( Global Forest Watch ), ending 
commodity-driven deforestation and accelerating 
restoration ( Forest Data Partnership ), measuring and 
mitigating extreme heat ( supported by Google.org ), 
assessing water risks associated with critical mineral 
extraction, and more. In 2025, WRI and Google co-authored 
a white paper highlighting AI-powered innovations for 
nature outcomes, and WRI launched its new Global Nature 
Watch built with Gemini.
106

Startups
Google’s Accelerators
From 2021 to 2025, we’ve hosted ten sustainability-focused accelerators 
across five continents to support and scale 126 startups that are building 
technologies to combat climate change and advance sustainability efforts. 
These 10-week programs are designed to bring the best of Google’s 
products, people, and technology to early-stage startups. In addition to 
mentorship and technical project support, programming also focuses on 
product design, customer acquisition, and leadership development for 
participating founders.
In 2025, we launched our first ever energy-focused Google for Startups 
accelerators in North America and Europe, welcoming 29 high-potential 
startups that received dedicated mentorship from Google experts and 
our partners, hands-on technical support, and access to our AI tools and 
Google Cloud infrastructure. Additionally, our Google.org Accelerator: 
Generative AI program provided funding and technical expertise to high-
impact organizations. Accelerator alumnus, Earth Genome , uses Google’s 
Gemini models to translate simple questions from frontline defenders and 
journalists into natural language queries of satellite imagery to help reveal 
environmental threats. Another participant, iNaturalist , is turning everyday 
people into nature experts by using Gemini models to synthesize expert 
identification tips from millions of community photo observations, making 
it easier for everyone to identify wildlife.
In 2026, we plan to run another energy-focused accelerator for startups 
in Europe and Israel. Additionally, the Google.org Impact Challenge: AI 
for Science and the Google.org Impact Challenge: AI for Government 
Innovation include two new Google.org accelerators to support innovators 
using AI for social good.
Startups for Sustainable Development
Through our Startups for Sustainable Development program, we’re 
working with impact-driven startups using technology to address the 
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. By providing long-term support, 
mentoring, funding connections, and cutting-edge research and 
technology, we help these startups scale solutions for global challenges 
like poverty, healthcare, and climate change.
In 2025, we deepened this commitment by integrating Google’s AI 
expertise into sustainability startup projects. In Belém, Brazil, we partnered 
with Morfo on a seven-day pilot to validate tropical forest regeneration. 
By combining geospatial AI with drone imagery, we created an audit-ready 
“digital twin” that tracks seedling health—detecting mortality just four 
months after planting rather than the two years previously requested. 
Additionally, we used Perch 2.0 bioacoustics to identify unique species as 
indicators of ecosystem recovery. Together, these AI-driven workflows 
make high-integrity environmental monitoring both technically robust and 
economically viable at scale.
As of the end of 2025, the program has supported more than 700 startups in 
over 75 countries, working with a network of over 200 partner organizations.
107
Supported organizations
Google.org
Through our philanthropy, Google.org , we support organizations that are 
accelerating scientific progress and creating scaled impact for a more 
sustainable future, particularly through the use of AI and data.
Google.org seeks to unlock opportunity for everyone, everywhere. We 
focus our work on three impact areas : Knowledge, skills, and learning; 
Scientific progress; and Stronger communities.
Google.org is committed to accelerating progress across the scientific 
continuum, from discovery to real-world impact. AI is proving to be a 
powerful accelerator for discovery, and by equipping current and future 
generations of social sector leaders with AI tools, Google.org aims to 
support AI-powered scientific breakthroughs to advance societal goals for 
people and the planet.
Catalyzing early-stage innovation 
Google.org is committed to progressing scientific discovery by 
supporting academic, nonprofit, and scientific organizations across the 
global research community. We foster an ecosystem that generates 
impactful research through programs like our PhD Fellowships , and we’re 
working alongside our own research teams to support global computing 
communities through research and academic initiatives. One such initiative 
is Google.org and Google Quantum AI’s support of XPRIZE Quantum 
Applications , a three year, $5 million global competition to apply quantum 
computing to solve real-world challenges.
Creating scaled impact for sustainability
Google.org is focused on bridging the gap between research 
breakthroughs and real-world practice to ensure the benefits of AI reach 
people and the planet as quickly and efficiently as possible. We do this 
by supporting organizations that use technology and data—especially AI 
and machine learning—to build free, open-sourced tools and datasets for 
the global community. These efforts are driven through initiatives like our 
Google.org Impact Challenges , which are open calls designed to support 
innovators using AI for social good.
Collaborating with others
At Google.org, we believe that building and enabling collective partnership 
models is critical to achieving measurable progress toward solving the 
world’s greatest challenges. AI Collaboratives are a funding approach 
designed to unite public, private, and nonprofit organizations and 
researchers to create AI-powered solutions for urgent challenges. Our 
AI Collaboratives for wildfires and food security are rooted in the belief 
that AI’s potential lies not just in the technology itself, but also in the 
partnerships that make its responsible application possible.

Governance
Sustainability governance
The Alphabet Audit Committee and Risk and Compliance Committee have 
the primary responsibility for the oversight of a number of risks facing the 
businesses. These committees review and discuss with management major 
risk exposures, including sustainability risks, and the steps that Alphabet 
takes to prevent, detect, monitor, and actively manage such exposures. 
Our Sustainability Focus Area, an internal management team led by our 
Chief Technologist, Learning and Sustainability, provides centralized 
management oversight of sustainability and climate-related issues. The 
Sustainability Focus Area includes the Chief Sustainability Officer and 
executives from across the company with diverse skills, from teams such 
as operations, products, finance, marketing, legal, communications, and 
policy, among others. Through the Sustainability Focus Area, sustainability 
and climate ambitions are built into our company-wide goals, plans of 
action, management policies, performance objectives, and how we 
monitor progress.
Net-zero governance
Our net-zero ambition is governed by a framework to ensure accountability 
at all levels. We’ve established a mature and flexible net-zero governance 
model that includes cross-functional planning processes, a company-wide 
working group, central resourcing, and quarterly progress reports. 
A critical part of the framework is our net-zero working group, a monthly 
forum of cross-functional leaders who convene and drive the execution 
and operationalization of our carbon reduction and net-zero ambitions, 
primarily through advancing progress on key carbon reduction initiatives. 
In this forum, a central team coordinating the cross-company efforts 
provides updates that help the working group align on priority areas, foster 
effective collaboration, and make informed decisions. 
We also share quarterly updates and hold biannual engagement sessions 
across our senior leadership (which can include VPs and SVPs, as 
well as our CFO, President & CIO, and CEO), providing a direct line of 
communication between the leadership team and the teams responsible 
for executing our net-zero strategy. This ongoing engagement enables 
senior leaders to provide guidance, remove roadblocks, and ensure 
that resources are continually allocated effectively to support our 
net-zero initiatives.
Risk management
Environmental risks are assessed as part of the company’s overall risk 
management framework. Risks and opportunities identified through this 
process support public disclosures and inform Google’s environmental 
sustainability strategy. Our Chief Sustainability Officer and sustainability 
teams work to address risks by identifying opportunities to reduce the 
company’s environmental impact from its operations and value chain, and 
by improving climate resilience.
Climate-related risks
Climate-related risks and opportunities can span multiple time horizons 
and may have varying levels of uncertainty regarding how climate trends, 
policy, and socioeconomic factors might evolve in the future. We’ve 
used qualitative and quantitative risk assessments to identify climate-
related risks and opportunities and understand their potential associated 
impact. We’ve aligned our climate risk assessment process closely with 
the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD); and we’ve used the TCFD categories of risks and 
opportunities and conducted climate scenario analyses. We’ve analyzed 
climate-related risks and opportunities across three time horizons—short 
term (through 2030), medium term (through 2040), and long term (through 
2050)—for financial, operational, legal, and strategic risks. Climate risks 
were modeled under high- and low-emissions scenarios for both physical 
and transition risks using scenarios developed by the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the Network for Greening the 
Financial System (NGFS). We considered acute and chronic physical risks 
(e.g., heat stress, water stress, and extreme weather events), as well as 
risks associated with transitioning to a low-carbon economy (e.g., energy 
costs, future regulations, and technology). We also assessed climate-
related opportunities (e.g., developing low-carbon products and services, 
improving energy efficiency, and advancing energy technologies). For 
more details, refer to our CDP Response .
Water-related risks
For our direct operations, Google annually undertakes a water risk 
assessment of our data centers and offices to identify potential water-
related risks and opportunities for water stewardship action and risk 
mitigation. Indicators from available risk assessment tools, including 
the WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 4.0 and the World Wildlife Fund 
(WWF) Water Risk Filter 6.0, along with local insights, are blended with 
other metrics to evaluate risks related to scarcity, flooding, water quality, 
sanitation and hygiene, reputation, and regulatory stressors.
We also apply our data center water risk framework at Google data 
centers to measure and evaluate site-level water risks and the potential 
watershed impact to inform our decision-making process for new site 
selection, cooling system design, and ongoing operations. We apply this 
framework to new and expanding campuses and aim to repeat these 
assessments across our existing data center portfolio every three to five 
years to evaluate water risks that may require mitigation. We also use 
this framework to inform our water replenishment efforts, by prioritizing 
replenishment in locations with higher risk.
108

Appendix
109

Company and report details
About Google
As our founders wrote in the original founders’ letter, Google’s goal is to 
“develop services that significantly improve the lives of as many people 
as possible.” We believe in the potential of technology to have a positive 
impact on the world. That unconventional spirit has been a driving force 
throughout our history, inspiring us to tackle big problems and invest in 
moonshots. It led us to be a pioneer in the development of AI and, since 
2016, be an AI-first company. We continue this work under the leadership 
of Alphabet and Google CEO, Sundar Pichai.
Alphabet is a collection of businesses—the largest of which is Google. 
Google comprises two segments: Google Services and Google Cloud, 
and all non-Google businesses are referred to collectively as Other Bets. 
Supporting these businesses, we have centralized certain AI-related 
research and development focused on advanced research in AI and 
developing the frontier models that serve our businesses.
Google Services’ core products and platforms include ads, Android, 
Chrome, devices, Gmail, Google Drive, Google Gemini, Google Maps, 
Google Photos, Google Play, Search, and YouTube. Our devices include 
Fitbit, Google Nest, Google Pixel, and Google TV devices. Our Google 
Cloud products include Google Cloud Platform and Google Workspace.
Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California. We own and 
lease office facilities and data centers around the world, primarily in Asia, 
Europe, and North America. In 2025, Google had offices and data centers 
on six continents, in over 60 countries, and across more than 200 cities. To 
learn more, refer to our data center locations and our office locations .
About this report
Google’s 2026 Environmental Report highlights how our technologies—
including cutting-edge AI and emerging research—are driving progress 
for both people and the planet. Throughout this report, we use the term 
“sustainability” to refer to environmental sustainability. This report features 
data from our 2025 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2025) and 
mentions some notable achievements from 2026 to date.
Additional resources
• Sustainability.google
• Explore our 2026 Environmental Report
• Sustainability: Stories and reports
• Sustainability blog
• About Google
• Google’s commitments
• Alphabet Additional Information: Environmental
Forward-looking information
References to information in this report should not be construed as a 
characterization regarding the materiality of such information to our 
financial results or our operations. While certain matters discussed in 
this report may be significant, any significance should not be read as 
necessarily rising to the level of materiality used for the purposes of 
complying with applicable securities laws and regulations in the United 
States or any other jurisdiction. The information in this report may contain 
projections, future estimates, plans, expectations, objectives, ambitions, 
and other forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are 
based on current expectations and assumptions and may also be based 
on estimates and assumptions under developing standards that may 
change in the future. Such statements are subject to certain risks and 
uncertainties, which could cause our actual results to differ materially 
from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Our ability to 
achieve any ambition or objective outlined in this report—whether through 
our products, projects, or funding efforts—is subject to numerous risks, 
many of which are outside of our control, such as the adoption of certain 
behaviors and activities by third parties, including our customers and 
partners. Performance data are not a guarantee of future performance 
nor intended to be a demonstration of linear progress against ambitions 
or objectives. There can be no guarantee that our products, projects, or 
funding efforts will have the effects we anticipate or intend. Any changes 
in methodology may result in material changes to our calculations and may 
result in the current and previous periods, including our base year, to be 
adjusted. This report represents our current policy and intent and is not 
intended to create legal rights or obligations. Except as required by law, 
we undertake no obligation to correct, revise, or update any information 
included in this report. Neither future distribution of this material nor the 
continued availability of this material in archive form on our website should 
be deemed to constitute an update or re-affirmation of these figures or 
statements as of any future date. Any future update will be provided only 
through a public disclosure indicating that fact.
Photo details
• Cover: The Google solar field at our data center in St. Ghislain, Belgium; We’ve 
introduced a new, intelligent AI-powered Search box, marking its biggest upgrade in 
over 25 years; Wind turbines spin near our data center in Eemshaven, Netherlands; 
Fuel-efficient routing in Google Maps .
• Introduction: These colorful pipes in our data center in Douglas County, Georgia, 
send and receive water for cooling our facility.
• Impact stories: Our Bay View campus, as seen from across its stormwater retention 
pond (Photo credit: Iwan Baan).
• Energy: Golden Hills wind farm in California (43 MW for Google).
• Resources: St. John’s Terminal has acres of native vegetation, redefining "green 
space" for commercial real estate in New York.
• AI solutions: Google AI and machine learning models can process complex 
geospatial data, transforming pixels into insights.
• Detailed disclosures: Googlers connect along the sunny exterior walkway of 
Google’s data center in South Carolina.
• Appendix: Our campus in Mountain View, California.
110

Certifications
Certification Details
Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact 
(CNDCP)
Google was a founding signatory of the Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact in 2021. In 2023, we successfully completed third-party verification 
for our five Google-owned and -operated data centers in Europe at that time, which remained valid in 2025.
EU Code of Conduct on Data 
Centre Energy Efficiency
In 2025, five Google-owned and -operated data centers in Europe were “ Participants ” in the EU Code of Conduct on Data Centre 
Energy Efficiency.
International Living Future 
Institute (Living Future) 
Living Building Challenge (LBC)
In 2025, our Bay View campus in Mountain View, California achieved Living Future’s LBC Water Petal Certification after a 12-month 
performance period. Bay View is the largest project to date to attain this certification as of the end of 2025.
ISO 50001: Energy management In 2025, we expanded our ISO 50001 certification scope to include eight Google data centers in Europe and Chile, up from six as of the end 
of 2024. We were the first major internet company to achieve a multi-site energy management system certification to ISO 50001, which we 
first obtained in 2013.
ISO 14001: Environmental 
management
In 2025, we maintained our ISO 14001 certification for the environmental design of our mobile phone, laptop, and tablet consumer hardware. 
In 2025, we expanded our ISO 14001 certification to three additional Google-owned and -operated data centers in Europe: Fredericia, 
Denmark; St. Ghislain, Belgium; and Hamina, Finland. Including our maintained certifications in Dublin, Ireland, and Eemshaven, Netherlands, 
this brings our total to five certified sites.
Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED)
As of the end of 2025, over 320 Google offices and facilities have achieved LEED certification, including 83 with a Platinum rating and 172 with 
a Gold rating. In 2025 alone, we achieved LEED certification for 10 Google offices and facilities, including 4 with a Platinum rating and 6 with a 
Gold rating. This includes a Platinum rating for Google’s Ananta campus in Bengaluru, India—one of Google’s largest offices globally. For a list 
of some of Google’s LEED-certified projects, refer to the U.S. Green Building Council’s project library .
TRUE (Total Resource Use and 
Efficiency)
Over the years, we’ve pursued TRUE Zero Waste certification at sites across our global real estate portfolio. In early 2026, we achieved TRUE 
Gold-level certification for Zero Waste for Google’s Omega campus in Hyderabad, India. This is Google’s first TRUE certification in India and 
our largest individual TRUE-certified site to date.
UL 2799 Zero Waste to Landfill 
Validation
In 2025, three Google sites achieved UL 2799 Zero Waste to Landfill Validation—two data center sites in South Carolina and Finland and a 
warehouse in Ireland.
Recognitions
Below is a selection of sustainability-related recognitions, mainly received in 2025. While most focus on environmental topics exclusively, some also 
recognize additional achievements.
Awarding organization Recognition Award/rank Additional details
Anthem Awards Brand of the Year Winner —
American Council of Engineering 
Companies, California
2025 Engineering 
Excellence Awards Honor Award Gradient Canopy
American Institute of Architects, 
New York (AIANY) 2025 AIANY Awards Citation for Biodiversity St. John’s Terminal
Data Center Magazine Top 10: Sustainable Data Centers Ranked #5 —
Engineering News-Record 2025 Global Best Projects Best Project, Green Project 1265 Borregas
Fast Company The World’s Most Innovative 
Companies 2026 Ranked #1 (Automotive) Waymo (Google ranked #1 overall)
Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies 2026 Ranked #8 Alphabet; ranking considers environmental data
Newsweek America’s Greenest Companies 2025 4/5 stars Alphabet
Sustainability Magazine Top 250 Sustainable Companies 2025 Ranked #18 —
TIME The Best Inventions of 2025 Winner (Aerospace) FireSat (alongside others like Waymo Driver )
TIME World’s Best Companies of 2025 Ranked #4 Alphabet; ranking considers environmental data
THE Best The Best Sustainability of 
the Year - 2025 Edition Listed —
Urban Land Institute (ULI), 
New York
2025 Awards for Excellence 
in Development
Winner (Excellence in Office Development)
Winner (Excellence in Adaptive Reuse)
St. John’s Terminal
Pier 57
111

Endnotes
1 The total GW figure represents clean energy procured through power purchase agreements, 
energy storage agreements, and agreements under which Google receives environmental attribute 
certificates. Actual generation may vary from contracted amounts based on project modifications, 
terminations, and performance.
2 CFE technologies include types of electricity generation that don’t directly emit carbon dioxide, 
including solar, wind, geothermal, hydropower, and nuclear. In addition, when deployed with the 
appropriate guardrails, low-carbon technologies including sustainable biomass and carbon capture 
and storage can contribute to a CFE portfolio. Energy storage systems can contribute as well. For 
more details, refer to The Corporate Role in Accelerating Advanced Clean Electricity Technologies.
3 Avoided emissions are emissions that would have otherwise occurred but were avoided because 
of actions taken either as part of normal operations or in service of climate ambitions. We calculate 
avoided emissions by comparing our actual emissions to a scenario where we didn’t take action. 
To estimate aggregate avoided emissions, we first estimated annual avoided emissions across our 
carbon reduction initiatives and then combined the totals. For more details about these emissions, 
refer to the Avoided emissions section in the Detailed disclosures section.
4 To estimate aggregate enabled emissions reductions, we first estimate annual reductions for nine 
product solutions individually (Google Earth, Nest thermostats, Solar API, Ignite Energy Access, 
fuel-efficient routing, Green Light, alternative route suggestions, Contrails, and Waymo) and 
then combine the totals. For details about the individual calculation methodologies, refer to the 
respective endnotes for each product solution. We continue to work to refine our methodologies 
and inputs for these estimates.
5 This figure reflects our “ambition-based” emissions boundary, which represents the subset of 
emissions from our total carbon footprint that are within the boundaries we’ve set for our climate 
ambitions. For more details about these emissions, refer to the Carbon footprint section in the 
Detailed disclosures section. 
6 For details about the calculation, refer to the Methodology section in the 
Detailed disclosures section.
7 PUE (power usage effectiveness) is a standard industry ratio that compares the amount of non-
computing overhead energy (used for things like cooling and power distribution) to the amount of 
energy used to power IT equipment. For example, a PUE of 2.0 means that for every watt of IT power, 
an additional watt is consumed to cool and distribute power to the IT equipment. A PUE closer to 1.0 
means nearly all the energy is used for computing. According to the Uptime Institute’s 2025 Global 
Data Center Survey, the global average PUE of respondents’ data centers was 1.54. The overhead 
energy use comparison was calculated as follows: (1 - (Google’s overhead energy use [0.09] divided 
by the industry average overhead energy use [0.54])) x 100 = 83%.
8 These calculations are based on internal data. Google’s TPU power efficiency relative to the earliest 
generation Cloud TPU v2 is measured by peak FP8 flops delivered per watt of thermal design power 
per chip package.
9 This calculation is based on internal data, as of April 2026.
10 A point-in-time analysis quantified the energy consumed per median Gemini App text-generation 
prompt, comparing data from May 2024 to data from May 2025. Energy per median prompt is 
subject to change as new models are added, AI model architecture evolves, and AI chatbot user 
behavior develops. These estimates have not been independently verified.
11 Refer to endnote 1 above.
12 A grid region (or regional grid) corresponds to the area over which a single entity manages the 
operation of the electric power system and ensures that demand and supply are finely balanced. 
In the United States, this generally means the Independent System Operator (ISO) or Regional 
Transmission Organizations (RTOs) in regions that have these regional market structures. If no such 
structure exists, then Google defines the grid region as the electricity-balancing authority where 
our data centers are located. Outside of the United States, the grid region most often refers to the 
geographic boundary of a country, because most grid system operators operate at the national 
level. Certain regions that span multiple countries are well interconnected and could be considered 
as one grid. However, our grid mix calculations already include import and export considerations 
and therefore take into account power flows from neighboring grids. In the future, we may update 
our definition as we work with grid operators to better understand how transmission constraints or 
congestion impact CFE measurement within and across grid regions.
13 Refer to endnote 6 above.
14 We define freshwater as naturally occurring water from surface or groundwater sources that isn’t 
salty, and is suitable for consumption if clean or processed. Freshwater excludes seawater and 
reclaimed wastewater.
15 Refer to endnote 6 above.
16 Recycled aluminum in the enclosures is at least 9% of applicable product based on weight. The 100% 
recycled aluminum content claim excludes Pixel 5a.
17 Recycled materials are at least 28% of product based on weight.
18 Refer to endnote 4 above.
19 “Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, November 2024, 
last accessed March 2026.
20 Refer to endnote 5 above.
21 The estimated population covered for significant events is as of July 2025, based on the forecasted 
flood risk area, using the WorldPop Global Project Population dataset. Significant flood events are 
events that meet a predetermined threshold based on an internal rating scheme that takes into 
account a number of factors.
22 Refer to endnote 3 above.
23 Refer to endnote 1 above.
24 Refer to endnote 3 above.
25 Refer to endnote 10 above.
26 To help manage the environmental impact of AI workloads, we monitor the Compute Carbon 
Intensity (CCI) of our AI accelerator hardware. CCI is defined in An Introduction to Life-Cycle 
Emissions of Artificial Intelligence Hardware as the estimated amount of CO2 equivalent emitted for 
every utilized floating-point operation (CO2e/FLOP). This metric provides a holistic, chip-level view 
by including both the embodied emissions associated with manufacturing, transportation, and data 
center construction (scope 3), as well as the operational emissions associated with running these 
chips in data centers (scope 1 and 2).
27 Following the methodology published in an August 2025 technical report, we quantified the full 
lifecycle emissions of TPU hardware as a point-in-time snapshot across Google’s generations of 
TPUs as of January 2026. The functional unit for this study is one AI computer deployed in the data 
center, which includes one or more accelerator trays (containing TPUs) connected to one host tray 
(i.e., a computing server). Peripheral components beyond the tray (e.g., rack, shelf, and network 
equipment) and auxiliary computing and storage resources are excluded from the calculation of 
embodied and operational emissions. We include the electricity used in data center cooling in 
operational emissions. To estimate operational emissions from electricity consumption of running 
workloads, we used a one month sample of observed machine power data from our entire TPU 
fleet, applying Google’s 2024 average fleetwide carbon intensity. To estimate embodied emissions 
from manufacturing, transportation, and retirement, we performed a life-cycle assessment of the 
hardware. Data center construction emissions were estimated based on Google’s disclosed 2024 
carbon footprint. These findings do not represent model-level emissions, nor are they a complete 
quantification of Google’s AI emissions. Based on the TPU location of a specific workload, CCI results 
of specific workloads may vary.
28 The 2025 total of 165 projects reflects a net adjustment of -1 project from our 2024 year-end count. 
This project was removed due to pending scope and timing changes, but may be re-integrated 
into our portfolio in the future. This adjustment explains the variance between the 2024 total (112 
projects), the 2025 additions (54 projects), and the 2025 portfolio total (165 projects).
29 Refer to endnote 6 above.
30 Refer to endnote 4 above.
31 Refer to endnote 5 above.
32 We estimated the compute emissions from our contrails model in 2025 by measuring the activities 
related to research, development, and serving the model in 2025, including training and evaluation. 
We measured the hourly energy consumption from relevant workloads and adjusted for facility 
overhead using campus-level data center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE). Energy consumption 
was then multiplied by regional annual grid carbon emission intensity factors from the International 
Energy Agency, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and the Association of Issuing Bodies 
to calculate market-based emissions with clean energy contracts applied based on grid region. All 
relevant compute workloads from January 2025 to December 2025 are included in this analysis. 
These findings may vary as the model continues deployment. The data and claims have not been 
independently verified.
33 To estimate enabled emissions reductions in 2025, we modeled contrail formation for 
avoidance-routes and cost-optimal baselines, and compared their relative warming impacts. 
We base the contrail warming potential (CO2e/km) on the best-available scientific evidence. For 
additional details, refer to the Project Contrails website and the Efficacy of Scalable Airline-led 
Contrail Avoidance paper. These factors contribute to a range of possible outcomes, within which we 
report a central value. The data and claims have not been independently verified. 
34 Refer to endnote 21 above.
35 Emissions per gigawatt-hour is based on total ambition-based emissions and total GWh of energy 
consumed in our operations. For details about the calculation, refer to Other GHG emissions and 
energy metrics in the Methodology section. The data and claims have not been 
independently verified.
36 These calculations are based on internal data, as of December 2025. Google’s Gemini serving unit 
cost calculations are measured on TPU v5e and Trillium (TPU v6e), with cost weighting applied to 
normalize across chip types. “Serving unit costs” refers to the incremental expense of processing a 
single “token” for a given Gemini model.
37 Refer to endnote 7 above.
38 Refer to endnote 27 above.
39 Refer to endnote 10 above.
40 Refer to endnote 10 above.
41 Refer to endnote 7 above.
42 We’ve updated our methodology for estimating our fleet-wide compute efficiency. This is based on 
internal analysis of the estimated energy consumption required for comparable work with CPU and 
GPU/TPU hardware from 2020 compared to 2025.
43 Refer to endnote 8 above.
44 Refer to endnote 9 above.
45 Refer to endnote 26 above.
46 Refer to endnote 27 above.
47 “NVIDIA Blackwell Platform Arrives to Power a New Era of Computing,” NVIDIA, March 2024.
48 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol offers two accounting standards for operational emissions. Results 
presented here consider market-based emissions, which includes the impact of CFE purchases. 
Location-based accounting, which excludes CFE purchases, would raise operational CCI to 793, 712, 
and 195 gCO2e/EFLOP, respectively. The ratio of CCI improvements would be at a similar level, and 
Ironwood’s embodied CCI would drop from 23% to 8% of its total CCI.
112

49 “Rethinking Load Growth: Assessing the Potential for Integration of Large Flexible Loads in US Power 
Systems,” Duke University, last accessed January 2026.
50 A point-in-time analysis quantified the energy consumed per median Gemini App text-generation 
prompt, considering data from May 2025. Emissions per prompt was estimated based on energy per 
prompt, and applying Google’s 2024 average fleetwide grid carbon intensity. Water consumption per 
prompt was estimated based on energy per prompt, and applying Google’s 2024 average fleetwide 
water usage effectiveness. These findings do not represent the specific environmental impact for 
all Gemini App text-generation prompts nor are they indicative of future performance. For more 
details, refer to “Measuring the Environmental Impact of Delivering AI at Google Scale,” Google, 
August 2025.
51 Based on the average operational electricity consumption for modern TVs from top manufacturers. 
Equivalency assumes a TV uses 100 Wh of energy per hour, per “How Many Watts Does a TV Use?” 
Energysage, November 2024, last accessed July 2025.
52 Refer to endnote 10 above.
53 Refer to endnote 1 above.
54 “How Much Electricity Does an American Home Use?” U.S. Energy Information Administration, 
January 2024, last accessed May 2026. The U.S. homes equivalency was calculated using 35 GW of 
clean energy capacity and the average annual electricity consumption for a U.S. residential utility 
customer (10,791 kWh), assuming constant generation over 8,760 hours per year.
55 “Quick Facts,” United States Census Bureau, last accessed May 2026. State household comparisons 
are based on U.S. Census Bureau data. As of July 2025, New York state, Texas, and Pennsylvania had 
roughly 8.7, 12.8, and 5.9 million housing units, respectively.
56 Shell NoordzeeWind is the oldest and first offshore wind farm to undergo a life extension in the 
Netherlands. Our desktop research didn’t identify any other offshore wind farms globally which 
faced decommissioning and permit expirations and were life extended thanks to a corporate PPA.
57 We estimated the expected annual generation of our contracted clean energy based on the net 
capacity factor (50th percentile) for each project. Actual generation may vary from the signed 
amounts based on project modifications, terminations, and performance.
58 The total GW figure includes generation from targeted clean energy investments. Actual amounts 
funded and generation developed may vary from the amounts anticipated when the agreements 
were signed.
59 EACs are tradable instruments issued for each unit of generation (typically one MWh) that serve to 
aggregate and track energy attributes. Depending on the issuing system and regional market, buyers 
may acquire EACs bundled with electricity from long-term clean energy agreements like PPAs or 
may purchase them from the marketplace. EACs are often interchangeably referred to as Renewable 
Energy Certificates (RECs). EACs can be issued as is or converted into GCs, which provide the 
hourly, time-stamped data necessary for 24/7 CFE matching.
60 “Queued Up: 2025 Edition Characteristics of Power Plants Seeking Transmission Interconnection As 
of the End of 2024,” Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, December 2025.
61 GCs—also known as Time-based Energy Attribute Certificates (T-EACs)—improve on EACs by 
capturing information about the hourly timing and location of clean electricity supply. As a result, 
GCs can enable more accurate electricity accounting, guide more credible and impactful clean 
energy purchases (both within and outside of a company’s emissions inventory), and improve 
energy policy design. GCs can be converted from EACs acquired with electricity from long-term 
clean energy agreements or they can be purchased from the marketplace. For more details, refer to 
The Role of Granular Certificates in Improving Clean Energy Credibility and Impact.
62 The application of environmental attribute certificates from our clean energy purchases and 
Granular Certificates represent accounting-based reductions for our 2025 scope 2 market-based 
emissions. For details about the calculation, refer to the Methodology section in the 
Detailed disclosures section.
63 This represents energy procured through power purchase agreements, energy storage agreements, 
and agreements under which Google receives environmental attribute certificates.
64 Google’s power and infrastructure costs are partly determined by factors outside of Google’s 
control including, but not limited to, state and local regulations, public service commission rulings, 
and partnerships with electrical utilities.
65 “Accelerating Transmission Capacity Expansion by Using Advanced Conductors in Existing 
Right-of-way,” PNAS, September 2024.
66 “Factors Influencing Recent Trends in Retail Electricity Prices in the United States,” Lawrence 
Berkeley National Laboratory, July 2025.
67 “Estimating the Impacts of Weatherization Readiness Programs,” American Council for an 
Energy-Efficient Economy, June 2025.
68 The heat provided by Google is offered at no cost to the local district heating provider, except for a 
nominal annual fee of €1 + VAT, included for administrative purposes.
69 Refer to endnote 6 above.
70 “24/7 Carbon-free Electricity Matching Accelerates Adoption of Advanced Clean Energy 
Technologies,” Joule, February 2025.
71 The Google Clean Energy Addendum applies to the electricity consumed by suppliers in the 
manufacturing of Google technical infrastructure and consumer hardware products.
72 GWP is used for comparing the global warming impacts of different greenhouse gases. Carbon 
dioxide is the reference gas for GWP1. GWP20 and GWP100 measure the relative warming impact of 
a gas over 20- and 100-year time periods, respectively.
73 “Computer Hardware Market Size, Future Growth and Forecast 2033,” Strategic Revenue Insights, 
January 2026.
74 This metric is based on emissions from construction of new data center infrastructure and 
megawatts of the related new data center capacity. It includes construction emissions from the 
following aspects of our data center infrastructure: data center building core and shell; mechanical, 
electrical, and plumbing systems; owner-furnished equipment; onsite networking; construction 
fuel; and supporting office facilities on data center campuses. This metric excludes emissions from 
technical infrastructure hardware and operational electricity. Data center construction emission 
intensity values are not disclosed for business reasons.
75 To calculate avoided emissions from our data center design and construction initiatives, we 
compare our scope 3 emissions from data center infrastructure to a hypothetical baseline scenario 
using our 2019 construction emission intensity (tCO2e per megawatt of data center capacity). This 
baseline assumes that our data centers would have continued to be built using the same materials 
and design practices as in 2019 to meet our current capacity requirements. We use a top-down 
calculation approach to capture the combined net impact of design efficiencies, densification, and 
lower-carbon material procurement, which is necessary to prevent double counting across parallel 
projects. The boundary includes the building core and shell, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing 
(MEP) systems, owner-furnished equipment, onsite networking, construction fuel, and offices at 
data centers, but explicitly excludes technical infrastructure hardware and operational electricity. 
The data and claims have not been independently verified.
76 Based on an internal life cycle assessment of Google’s 2025 standard data center design and 
localized construction materials, applying an 80% reduction potential for these materials. These 
estimates have not been independently verified.
77 Based on 2023 direct water usage in data centers and residential outdoor water use across the 
U.S. Sources: “2024 United States Data Center Energy Usage Report,” Lawrence Berkeley National 
Laboratory, December 2024; and “About WaterSense,” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, June 
2025, last accessed May 2026.
78 “How Much Water Does Golf Use and Where Does It Come From?” U.S. Golf Association, November 
2012. The average annual irrigation for Southwest U.S. golf courses is 459 acre-feet (or around 150 
million gallons).
79 The local water sources for our campuses at The Dalles were assessed using our data center 
water risk framework in 2022. We aim to repeat these assessments across our existing data center 
portfolio every three to five years to monitor water risks that may evolve.
80 A data center’s “overhead” is the energy it uses beyond what is needed to power IT equipment, 
calculated as (PUE - 1). In the fourth quarter of 2025, the Quarterly PUEs for our three data center 
campuses in The Dalles were 1.06, 1.07, and 1.10. For comparison, the Uptime Institute’s 2025 Global 
Data Center Survey reported a global average PUE of 1.54 in 2025.
81 Refer to endnote 28 above.
82 Refer to endnote 6 above.
83 “How We Use Water,” United States Environmental Protection Agency, August 2025, last accessed 
May 2026. The average American family uses more than 300 gallons of water per day at home.
84 This estimate is based on the current project designs and anticipated completion timelines as of 
March 2026. Actual replenishment volumes may vary due to factors beyond our control, such as 
changes in precipitation patterns or delayed permitting or construction of third-party infrastructure; 
many of these projects are in progress and project details and schedules may change.
85 “Water System,” Los Angeles Department of Water & Power (LADWP), last accessed May 2026. In 
fiscal year 2019-24, the LADWP supplied an average of 426 million gallons per day.
86 We calculated this site-managed waste diversion rate by comparing the total weight of diverted 
packaging materials (recycling and reuse) in 2025 against the diversion rates from the local 
municipal waste authorities serving each pilot site in North and South Carolina. “Site-managed 
waste” excludes waste handled by third-party municipal services not under direct pilot supervision.
87 Refer to endnote 6 above.
88 We’ve followed the UL 2799 Environmental Claim Validation Procedure covering zero waste to landfill 
and landfill waste diversion.
89 “The Eiffel Tower Facts, Eight & Weight,” La Tour Eiffel, last accessed April 2026. The Eiffel Tower 
weighs 10,100 metric tons.
90 Designed to comply with dust and water protection rating IP68 under IEC standard 60529 when 
each device leaves the factory but the device is not water or dust proof. The accessories are not 
water or dust resistant. Water resistance and dust resistance are not permanent conditions and will 
diminish or be lost over time due to normal wear and tear, device repair, disassembly or damage. 
Phone is not drop/tumble proof and dropping your device may result in loss of water/dust resistance. 
Damage from drops, tumbles, and other external forces are not covered under warranty. Liquid 
damage voids the warranty. Refer to g.co/pixel/water for details. GORILLA and VICTUS are registered 
trademarks of Corning Incorporated.
91 Google Pixel Watch is designed to comply with a water protection rating of 5 ATM under ISO 
standard 22810:2010 when manufactured, but it is not waterproof. Water resistance is not a 
permanent condition and decreases or is lost over time due to normal wear and tear, repair, 
disassembly, or damage. Dropping your device may result in loss of water resistance. Google Pixel 
Watch should not be used for activities involving water at high velocity or high temperature. Some 
Google Pixel Watch bands are not water resistant. Refer to g.co/pixelwatch/water for details. After 
any exposure to liquid, we recommend drying the watch and band because, as with any wearable 
device, it’s best for your skin if the band is clean and dry. GORILLA and VICTUS are registered 
trademarks of Corning Incorporated.
92 Refer to endnote 17 above.
93 Based on product weight. In accordance with European Union’s Ecodesign of Smartphones 
2023/1670 requirements, the “Indicative Weight Range” of the following critical raw materials are: 
Cobalt in the battery: between 10 g and 20 g; Tantalum in capacitors: between 0.01 g and 0.02 g; 
Neodymium in loudspeakers, vibration motors, and other magnets: between 0.2 g and 0.3 g; 
Gold in all components: between 0.01 g and 0.02 g. Google contracted a testing, inspection, and 
certification company to evaluate our products independently, using EN45555:2019 as a standard 
methodology; the Recyclability Rate for the Pixel 10a is 68.1% and the recoverability rate is 79.6%.
94 Refer to endnote 16 above.
113

95 Carbon footprint reduction claim based on third-party-verified life cycle assessment.
96 Based on product weight. In accordance with European Union’s Ecodesign of Smartphones 
2023/1670 requirements, the “Indicative Weight Range” of the following critical raw materials 
are: Cobalt in the battery: above 10 g; Tantalum in capacitors: less than 0.01 g; Neodymium in 
loudspeakers, vibration motors, and other magnets: above 0.2 g; Gold in all components: less than 
0.02 g; Google contracted a testing, inspection and certification company to evaluate our products 
independently, using EN45555:2019 as a standard methodology: the Recyclability Rate for the Pixel 
10 Pro is 69.88% and the recoverability rate is 80.08%.
97 These recycled materials are at least 30% of product based on weight.
98 “Anthro” means “people” in Greek, and “krishi” means “agriculture” in Sanskrit. Together, AnthroKrishi 
represents our focus on using AI to transform agriculture in a people-centric way.
99 Unique, signed-in Google users that were provided information to make a more sustainable choice 
by at least one sustainable product feature.
100 “Japan Country Profile: CO2 and Greenhouse Gas Emissions,” Our World in Data, last accessed 
March 2026.
101 Refer to endnote 4 above.
102 Refer to endnote 19 above.
103 Refer to endnote 5 above.
104 To estimate the annual enabled emissions reductions in 2025, Google first interviewed partners 
that use Google Earth to understand the significance it played in their process (from siting to 
construction) and considered all the solar and onshore wind power plants built by the developers. 
For solar plants, we estimated the capacity factor via an EIA published dataset, then estimated 
the per-hour-of-the-year generation profile via NREL PVWatts. For wind plants, we leveraged 
Berkeley Lab’s Land-Based Wind Market Report to estimate a capacity factor and assume that the 
wind generation profile is steady throughout the year. For both solar and wind, we used the NREL 
Cambium model to estimate the amount of emissions reduced due to the clean energy generated 
in 2025. The estimated annual emissions reduction takes into account projects enabled by Google 
Earth prior to 2025 (dating back to 2020) to calculate the total impact in 2025 alone. Enabled 
emissions reductions estimates include inherent uncertainty due to factors that include the lack of 
primary data and precise information about real-world actions and their effects to date, as well as 
forward-looking projections. Google is relying on its own substantiation of the enabled emissions-
reduction impact, in consultation with multiple third-party partners that have reviewed and support 
the methodology discussed herein. The data and claims have not been independently verified.
105 Estimated energy savings are calculated based on the average percentages for heating and cooling 
savings found in real-world studies of the Nest Learning Thermostat in the U.S. and U.K., and 
generalized for Nest thermostat usage worldwide, assuming user opt-in for available energy-saving 
features. To calculate the total Nest savings, we applied the savings percentages to the actual 
heating and cooling hours of all Nest thermostats in use in 2025.
106 The enabled emissions reductions are calculated based on these energy savings, applying standard 
emission factors for fossil fuels, and using U.S. EPA AVERT marginal emissions for the 95% of 
electricity savings that occur in the U.S., with an adjusted value for the 5% of electricity savings 
outside the U.S. The data and claims have not been independently verified.
107 Estimated energy savings are calculated based on the average percentages for heating and cooling 
savings found in real-world studies of the Nest Learning Thermostat in the U.S. and U.K., and 
generalized for Nest thermostat usage worldwide, assuming user opt-in for available energy-saving 
features. To calculate the total Nest savings, we applied the savings percentages to the actual 
heating and cooling hours of all Nest thermostats in use since 2011. As of January 2023, we use an 
updated energy savings calculation methodology to account for changes in common HVAC sizes 
and efficiencies, applying the respective energy savings percentages to Nest thermostats in North 
America and in European countries.
108 “Energy Statistics Data Browser: Malaysia,” IEA, last accessed March 2026. Malaysia’s total electricity 
consumption was approximately 178 TWh in 2023.
109 The Solar API estimates the rooftop solar potential of buildings around the world, using high-
resolution, 3D models of individual roofs from our aerial imagery in Google Maps. We’ve counted the 
number of individual buildings for which we have data, and which can be accessed via a lat-long in 
Google Maps Platform.
110 To estimate the annual emissions reductions enabled in 2025, Google estimated the number of 
buildings that installed solar panels shortly after calling the Solar API. For calls from 2023 to 2025, 
we counted the number of buildings that had a publicly issued solar permit within six months of the 
API call; for calls between 2020 and 2022, we estimated the number of installations via historical 
conversion rates. We then used Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory’s Tracking the Sun dataset 
to estimate the average installation size per state, NREL PVWatts to provide insolation data, and the 
NREL Cambium model to estimate the amount of emissions reduced by the energy generated due to 
those panels. Each installation dating back to 2020 contributes to the enabled emissions reductions 
in operating year 2025 for this annual estimate. Enabled emissions reductions estimates include 
inherent uncertainty due to factors that include the lack of primary data and precise information 
about real-world actions and their effects to date, as well as forward-looking projections. Google 
is relying on its own substantiation of the enabled emissions reduction impact, in consultation with 
multiple third-party partners that have reviewed and support the methodology discussed herein. 
The data and claims have not been independently verified. 
111 To estimate the annual emissions reductions enabled in 2025, Google analyzed the number of 
solar lamps sold as reported by Ignite Energy Access and its subsidiaries between 2023 and 2025. 
Following the UNFCCC’s methodology for Substituting Fossil Fuel-based Lighting with More 
Efficient Lighting Systems, we estimated a 0.092 tCO2e reduction per year per solar lamp. This 
annual estimate includes solar lamps sold dating back to July 2023. To calculate the total impact for 
2025, we estimated a single year’s worth of emissions reductions for each solar lamp sold, making 
adjustments based on the installation date for lamps sold in 2025 as applicable. Enabled emissions 
reductions estimates include inherent uncertainty due to factors that include the lack of primary 
data and precise information about real-world actions and their effects. The data and claims have 
not been independently verified.
112 Google uses an AI prediction model to estimate the expected fuel or energy consumption for 
each route option when users request driving directions. We identify the route that we predict will 
consume the least amount of fuel or energy. If this route is not already the fastest one and it offers 
meaningful energy and fuel savings with only a small increase in driving time, we recommend it 
to the user. To calculate enabled emissions reductions, we tally the fuel usage from the chosen 
fuel-efficient routes and subtract it from the predicted fuel consumption that would have occurred 
on the fastest route without fuel-efficient routing and apply adjustments for factors such as: CO2e 
factors, fleet mix factors, well-to-wheels factors, and powertrain mismatch factors. This figure 
covers estimated enabled emissions reductions for the calendar year, from January through 
December. Enabled emissions reductions estimates include inherent uncertainty due to factors that 
include the lack of primary data and precise information about real-world actions and their effects. 
These factors contribute to a range of possible outcomes, within which we report a central value. 
The data and claims have not been independently verified. 
113 Refer to endnote 19 above.
114 We count trips shifted away from driving if a user initially requests driving directions, is prompted 
with our suggestion and then presses “Start Navigation” in either walk or transit mode.
115 To estimate emissions reductions, we multiply the total distance that would have been driven 
(based on users requested driving directions) by the fleet mix and fuel efficiency emissions factor 
for cars generated from the World Bank Group’s CURB tool. We consider both walking and transit 
to contribute 0 emissions in this case, given that an additional transit rider will not generate any 
additional carbon emissions on an existing route. If this feature scales to the point that we believe 
new routes are being added or frequency is being increased, we will revisit this assumption. This 
figure covers estimated enabled emissions reductions for the calendar year, from January through 
December. Enabled emissions reductions estimates include inherent uncertainty due to factors that 
include the lack of primary data and precise information about real-world actions and their effects. 
These factors contribute to a range of possible outcomes, within which we report a central value. 
The data and claims have not been independently verified. 
116 “Waymo Safety Impact,” Waymo, last accessed April 2026. 
117 Refer to the Waymo Avoided Emissions Methodology for details about the calculation for this 
estimate. The data and claims have not been independently verified.
118 This is based on estimated daily vehicle crossings at the intersections where Green Light has been 
implemented from 2021 to 2025, multiplied by the average workdays in a month.
119 To estimate the emissions reductions from the Green Light project, we employ a multi-step 
methodology. The process begins with calculating the average fuel consumption for a reference 
vehicle using a validated model. Then, we apply a series of regionalized adjustment factors to reflect 
real-world fleet characteristics and to reflect the fuel’s well-to-wheels emissions. The foundation of 
our estimates is a U.S. Department of Energy emissions model, which we use to calculate the fuel 
consumption of a reference vehicle based on vehicle trajectory data collected for at least three 
weeks before and after a Green Light recommendation is implemented. To determine the reference 
vehicle’s fuel efficiency (e.g. average fuel consumption [liters of gasoline equivalent per 100 km]), 
we analyzed data points from driving sessions covering both city and highway driving, over a 
period of 10 days. To adapt the baseline model results to diverse, real-world conditions, we apply 
three distinct adjustment factors: fleet mix factors, CO2e factors, and well-to-wheels factors. This 
figure covers estimated enabled emissions reductions for the calendar year, from January through 
December. Enabled emissions reductions estimates include inherent uncertainty due to factors that 
include the lack of primary data and precise information about real-world actions and their effects. 
These factors contribute to a range of possible outcomes, within which we report a central value. 
The data and claims have not been independently verified.
120 Refer to endnote 33 above.
121 “Sixth Assessment Report,” IPCC, April 2022.
122 “The Contribution of Global Aviation to Anthropogenic Climate Forcing for 2000 to 2018,” 
Atmospheric Environment, January 2021. Calculated using Supplementary data to compare the 
global warming potential (GWP100) of contrails to the total global warming potential of the three 
primary aviation pollutants (CO2, NOx, and contrails). 
123 Based on the results of a large-scale Randomized Control Trial (RCT) designed to test the feasibility 
and efficacy of scalable dispatcher-led contrail avoidance integrated directly into standard airline 
operations. Through a collaboration between American Airlines Inc. (AAL), Flightkeys GmbH, 
Contrails.org, and Google LLC, we integrated an ML-based contrail forecast into the Flightkeys 
GmbH platform (hereafter referred to as “Flightkeys”), which AAL uses for creating flight plans in 
normal operations. This allowed for the generation of contrail-optimized flight plans across the 
airline’s North Atlantic network without relying on labor-intensive planning methods, as the proposal 
of contrail-optimized flights plans was included in standard workflows. We validated the efficacy of 
these avoidance maneuvers using an automated satellite verification system. For more details, refer 
to the Project Contrails website and the Efficacy of Scalable Airline-led Contrail Avoidance paper.
124 “Maastricht UAC Operational Contrail Trial 2025/2026,” EUROCONTROL Showcase Summit, 
November 2025.
125 Refer to endnote 32 above.
126 Refer to endnote 33 above.
127 “Global Temperature Report for 2025,” Berkeley Earth, January 2026.
128 “2025 in Review: U.S. Billion-Dollar Disasters,” Climate Central, January 2026, last accessed February 
2026.
129 Based on estimated impressions of alerts provided through our crisis response portfolio from 
January 1 to December 31, 2025.
130 Refer to endnote 21 above.
131 “Tropical Cyclone,” World Meteorological Organization, last accessed February 2026.
132 “Tropical Cyclone Report: Hurricane Melissa,” National Hurricane Center, October 2025.
133 “The Best Hurricane Forecasts of 2025 Came From an AI Model,” CNN Climate, December 2025.
114

134 “Providing Farmers with Better Forecasts Helps Them Adapt to Climate Change,” The University of 
Chicago, February 2024.
135 “Living Planet Report 2024,” World Wildlife Fund, October 2024.
136 “Biodiversity,” World Health Organization, February 2025, last accessed February 2026.
137 The number of recordings examined is based on the information displayed on the Forest Listeners 
platform as of April 2026.
138 Based on the information displayed on the Wildlife Insights platform as of April 2026.
139 “Managing Nature Risks: From Understanding to Action,” PwC, April 2023.
140 Refer to endnote 62 above.
141 Refer to endnote 3 above.
142 To calculate avoided emissions from our operational clean energy from 2012 to 2025, we compare 
our scope 2 (market-based) emissions to our scope 2 location-based emissions—which are the 
emissions we would have reported if we didn’t use any market-based interventions like PPAs, other 
clean energy agreements, and Granular Certificates—and instead only used electricity from the 
local grid (location-based). This estimate hasn’t been independently verified. The application of 
environmental attribute certificates from our clean energy purchases and Granular Certificates 
represent accounting-based reductions for our 2025 scope 2 market-based emissions. For details 
about the calculation, refer to the Methodology section in the Detailed disclosures section.
143 Refer to endnote 19 above.
144 To calculate annual avoided emissions from our operational clean energy, we compare our scope 
2 (market-based) emissions to our scope 2 location-based emissions—which are the emissions 
we would have reported if we didn’t use any market-based interventions like PPAs, other clean 
energy agreements, and Granular Certificates—and instead only used electricity from the local grid 
(location-based). Our 2025 scope 2 market-based and scope 2 (location-based) emissions have 
been independently verified. For more details, refer to our 2026 (FY2025) Independent Accountants’ 
Review Report. The application of environmental attribute certificates from our clean energy 
purchases and Granular Certificates represent accounting-based reductions for our 2025 scope 2 
market-based emissions. For details about the calculation, refer to the Methodology section in the 
Detailed disclosures section.
145 Refer to endnote 62 above.
146 Refer to endnote 71 above.
147 To calculate avoided emissions from our supply chain clean energy efforts, we compare the 
emissions from our value chain to a location-based baseline scenario where no clean electricity 
was procured by Google or our suppliers. We estimate the scope 3 emissions avoided through 
two primary levers: deeply engaged suppliers procuring their own clean electricity to match the 
electricity they use to manufacture Google products, and Google directly purchasing EACs to 
cover the estimated electricity consumption of “long-tail” suppliers, data center infrastructure, 
transmission and distribution losses, and consumer device use. Because the Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol’s Scope 3 Standard currently does not account for the impact of all market instruments, 
emissions reductions achieved via EACs are reported separately from our GHGP-aligned inventory. 
Supplier-reported EAC data was independently verified, but other data and claims were not.
148 We report avoided emissions starting from the first year we have both actual savings and reliable 
data and methodologies to account for them. For some projects, this means we start reporting 
from the very first year of impact. For others, we wait until our tracking and accounting methods are 
robust enough to report accurately—even if the project started earlier.
149 To calculate avoided emissions from our power usage effectiveness (PUE) improvements, we 
compare our fleet-wide trailing 12-month (TTM) PUE in each year from 2019 to 2025 to a baseline 
from our earliest fleet-wide TTM PUE (which was 1.21 in 2008). This baseline assumes that our PUE 
would have remained the same without our efficiency improvements. We translate this efficiency 
improvement into avoided energy consumption, and then calculate avoided emissions using an 
annual emissions rate (tCO2e/GWh) derived from reported scope 2 electricity data in our corporate 
GHG inventory for the relevant year. We assume additional energy consumption in the baseline 
scenario would not have been matched with additional clean energy procurement. The data and 
claims have not been independently verified.
150 To calculate avoided emissions from our machine hardware efficiency improvements, we compare 
the actual emissions from our servers and other hardware in 2019 to 2025 to a hypothetical scenario 
where we didn’t implement any efficiency measures and continued to deploy older, less efficient 
hardware, which could have resulted in increased machines deployed and increased energy 
consumption. By comparing the actual energy consumption to this hypothetical baseline, which is 
defined by the most recent fully retired generation of machines, we estimate the energy savings and 
associated scope 2 emissions avoided through our machine hardware efficiency initiatives. Similarly, 
we estimate the scope 3 emissions avoided by comparing actual hardware manufacturing and 
logistics emissions to the same hypothetical baseline. We assume additional energy consumption in 
the baseline scenario wouldn’t have been matched with additional clean energy procurement. The 
data and claims have not been independently verified.
151 To calculate avoided emissions from our software and computing efficiencies, we compare our 
actual machine demand and energy consumption to a hypothetical baseline scenario where recent 
software, machine learning, and cloud efficiency optimizations weren’t implemented. We translate 
these digital resource savings—such as optimized compute cores, memory (RAM), and storage—
into the equivalent number of physical machines that would have been required to support them. 
By comparing this to the baseline, we estimate the scope 3 emissions avoided from hardware 
manufacturing, logistics, and data center construction. Similarly, we estimate the scope 2 emissions 
avoided by converting these avoided machines into operational energy savings over an assumed 
six-year machine lifespan. To prevent double counting, these calculations isolate the impact 
of software efficiencies and exclude savings already accounted for by hardware performance 
upgrades or specific data center construction design changes. We assume additional energy 
consumption in the baseline scenario wouldn’t have been matched with additional clean energy 
procurement. The data and claims have not been independently verified.
152 Refer to endnote 75 above.
153 To calculate avoided emissions from our Fleet Deployment Sustainability efforts, we compare our 
actual hardware deployments to a hypothetical baseline scenario where every new computing 
demand was fulfilled by manufacturing a brand new machine, rather than reusing existing 
components or sharing pooled capacity. By comparing our actual operations to this baseline, 
we estimate the scope 3 emissions avoided from hardware manufacturing by using LCA data to 
quantify the physical machines and components we avoided purchasing. Similarly, we estimate the 
scope 2 emissions avoided by calculating the net operational energy saved when older components 
are replaced by slightly more efficient ones, projecting these energy savings over an assumed six-
year machine lifespan. We assume additional energy consumption in the baseline scenario wouldn’t 
have been matched with additional clean energy procurement. The data and claims have not been 
independently verified.
154 Refer to endnote 6 above.
155 Based on research from the International Energy Agency (Advancing Decarbonisation through Clean 
Electricity Procurement, 2022), Princeton University (System-Level Impacts of 24/7 Carbon-Free 
Electricity Procurement, 2021), TU Berlin (On the Means, Costs, and System-Level Impacts of 24/7 
Carbon-Free Energy Procurement, 2024), and TransitionZero (Modelling 24/7 Carbon-Free Electricity 
in Asia, 2025).
156 We’ll apply GCs to our hourly load in a hierarchical sequence: first, accounting for contracted CFE 
from long-term contracts; next, applying GCs up to an annual volume cap per grid region; and finally, 
accounting for grid CFE for any remaining load. This prioritization will ensure that GCs purchased 
from the marketplace are exhausted before we account for system-level CFE already present on 
the grid. And to ensure GCs are only supplemental to our long-term energy contracts, we’ll use a 
predetermined annual volume cap within each grid region. For more details, refer to The Role of 
Granular Certificates in Improving Clean Energy Credibility and Impact.
157 Refer to endnote 60 above.
158 “Energy Demand from AI,” IEA, April 2025, last accessed January 2026. We use the term “industrial 
manufacturing” for the IEA category “Industry excluding heavy industry.” This category includes 
sectors that primarily rely on electricity (e.g., machinery, textiles), distinct from “heavy industry” 
sectors like steel and cement that utilize large amounts of raw heat.
159 In 2025, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) validated Alphabet’s near-term science-based 
emissions reduction target, aligning our measurements with rigorous standards for emissions 
reduction. Our carbon reduction target was validated using the SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria 
Version 5.2 and following the cross-sector absolute reduction method. 
160 Refer to endnote 3 above.
161 Refer to endnote 3 above.
162 We’re prioritizing reductions across scopes 2 and 3, which have much larger emissions reduction 
potential that rely in part on accelerating the deployment of clean electricity across both our 
operations and suppliers—which is why a significant portion of our approach focuses specifically 
on unlocking new clean energy. Reducing scope 1 emissions is important—not only because they’re 
within our direct control, but also because they’re part of our broader sustainability efforts. However, 
scope 1 emissions represent less than 1% of our total 2025 carbon footprint. 
163 Refer to endnote 7 above.
164 Refer to endnote 1 above.
165 Refer to endnote 62 above.
166 Refer to endnote 144 above.
167 Refer to endnote 71 above.
168 Refer to endnote 147 above.
169 Refer to endnote 74 above.
170 Refer to endnote 76 above.
171 Refer to endnote 75 above.
172 This includes superpollutant elimination projects that we contracted for in 2025 to complement our 
carbon removal credits. We report these credits in separate categories because the climate impact 
of superpollutant credits is often shorter-lived than carbon dioxide removal credits.
173 “Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis,” IPCC, August 2021. Superpollutants are estimated 
to have contributed 43–47% of the warming impact of all emissions between 2010–2019 relative 
to 1850–1900. This figure, based on radiative forcing studies, aggregates the warming effects of 
methane, nitrous oxide, and fluorinated gases.
174 Currently, SBTi validates near-term (by 2030) carbon reduction targets and long-term (by or before 
2050) net-zero targets (“SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard Version 1.3,” Science Based Targets 
initiative, September 2025). Our carbon reduction target was validated using the SBTi Corporate 
Near-Term Criteria Version 5.2 and following the cross-sector absolute reduction method. This 
approach aligns with a 1.5°C scenario and uses the standard validation route for target setting. 
Because our net-zero ambition allows for 50% remaining emissions by our 2030 ambition date, we 
don’t meet SBTi’s criteria of only 10% residuals (for a long-term net-zero target by 2050). For this 
reason, we’ve only validated our near-term carbon reduction target with SBTi to date. 
175 This covers many of the procured goods and services related to our day-to-day operations such as 
IT, marketing, professional services, legal services, software, real estate management, etc.
176 Alphabet is a collection of businesses—the largest of which is Google. We refer to all non-Google 
businesses collectively as Other Bets. Refer to Alphabet’s 2025 Form 10-K for more detail.
177 “SBTi Corporate Near-Term Criteria V5.3,” Science Based Target initiative, September 2025. Criteria 
C5 and C6 outline the requirements for GHG inventory emissions coverage and target boundaries.
178 Refer to endnote 3 above.
179 Refer to endnote 6 above.
115

180 The percent of water replenished in 2024 was impacted by recalculation of our 2024 freshwater 
consumption, which was part of a one-time data migration to our new data management system. 
181 Refer to endnote 6 above.
182 Refer to endnote 28 above.
183 Refer to endnote 84 above.
184 Percent reduction in food waste per Googler was calculated as food waste generated in kitchens 
and cafes at Google’s global offices per unique building badge swipes, against a 2019 base year.
185 “From Surplus to Solutions: 2025 ReFED U.S. Food Waste Report,” ReFED, February 2025. ReFED 
reports that approximately 28% of surplus food waste in the United States is diverted from landfills 
via composting (~15%), anaerobic digestion (~2%), food donations (2%), or livestock feed (9%).
186 Based on total plastic weight of Google Pixel, Nest, Google TV, and Fitbit products manufactured 
in 2025. Total plastic weight does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, 
connectors, electronic components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) 
components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
187 Based on total plastic weight of Google Pixel, Nest, Chromecast, and Fitbit products manufactured 
in 2024. Total plastic weight does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, 
connectors, electronic components and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) 
components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
188 Refer to endnote 17 above.
189 This recycled plastic accounts for at least 6% of the product based on product weight. This does 
not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, cables, connectors, electronic components 
and modules, optical components, electrostatic discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic 
interference (EMI) components, films, coatings, and adhesives.
190 Based on total weight of new Google Pixel, Nest, Google TV, and Fitbit products and accessories 
launched and manufactured in 2025. This does not include plastics in printed circuit boards, labels, 
cables, connectors, electronic components and modules, optical components, electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) components, electromagnetic interference (EMI) components, films, coatings, and 
adhesives.
191 Refer to endnote 176 above.
192 Flagship consumer devices are products that can provide their main functionality without 
connection to another product. For example, this generally doesn’t include accessories such 
as cases.
193 Network and end-user devices used to access web-based software are not considered to be 
direct-use phase emissions and are not within the reporting boundary for use of sold products.
194 In 2025, we recalculated certain previously reported metrics in accordance with our internal 
recalculation policy for improved accuracy. For more details, refer to the Recalculation of previous 
environmental metrics section.
195 While we haven’t excluded any Alphabet scope 1 or scope 2 emissions from our carbon reduction 
ambition boundary, we’ve excluded specific activities within scope 3 that are peripheral to our 
core operations and where our ability to influence emissions reductions is limited: food program 
purchases, certain purchased goods and services associated with Alphabet’s day-to-day operations, 
and Other Bets capital goods. This boundary is in line with SBTi’s guidelines for target validation. For 
more details, refer to the Ambitions section.
196 We present all emissions from category 2 (Capital goods) and category 11 (Use of sold products) as 
an aggregated total for business reasons.
197 Starting with the 2026 Environmental Report, we adjusted the methodology for this metric from 
operational emissions (scope 1 and market-based scope 2) to total ambition-based emissions 
(scope 1, market-based scope 2, and ambition-based scope 3). We’ve applied this change to all 
reported years in this report. Total emissions intensity per dollar of revenue is a standard intensity 
metric used across industries because it normalizes against a universally common denominator 
(revenue). We disclose this metric for comparability with other organizations. However, it’s not a 
metric we use to measure our decarbonization progress, because we believe that the relationship 
between revenue and emissions doesn’t fully capture the nuance required to accurately reflect 
the degree to which business growth is coupled with—or successfully decoupled from—total 
carbon emissions.
198 Starting with the 2026 Environmental Report, we adjusted the methodology for this metric from 
operational emissions (scope 1 and market-based scope 2) to total ambition-based emissions 
(scope 1, market-based scope 2, and ambition-based scope 3). Additionally, we adjusted from 
megawatt-hours to gigawatt-hours. We’ve applied these changes to all reported years in this report.
199 Actual delivered credits may vary from contracted credits based on changes during the project, 
supplier circumstances, and contract terminations. This table reflects the contracted credits for 
agreements signed as of the end of 2025. As of March 2026, project locations for Phlair and Ebb 
Carbon were not yet determined, and the following information was only available for Vaulted Deep, 
CREW, NULIFE GreenTech, Charm Industrial, Planetary Technologies, and CarbonRun: registry, 
project identification number, project name, and protocol used to estimate removal benefits. For 
these details, refer to the endnotes on each of those suppliers in the Carbon removal credits data 
table. Both carbon removal credits and superpollutant elimination credits will undergo independent 
third-party verification prior to registry issuance and delivery to Google.
200 Details for this Charm Industrial project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification Number: 
6TMZ; Project Name: Charm Range & Plains Biochar; Protocol: Biochar Production and Storage 
v.1.0 (Isometric).
201 Details for this Charm Industrial project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification Number: 
7BDE; Project Name: Charm Bio-oil Geologic Storage; Protocol: Bio-oil Geological Storage 
v.1.1 (Isometric).
202 Details for this Vaulted Deep project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification Number: 01P4; 
Project Name: Great Plains Organic Waste Sequestration; Protocol: Biomass Geological Storage 
v1.1 (Isometric).
203 Details for this NULIFE GreenTech project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification Number: 
GHYZ; Project Name: Ontario Avenue Bio-Oil Sequestration; Protocol: Bio-oil Geological Storage 
v.1.1 (Isometric).
204 Details for this Planetary Technologies project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification 
Number: F5X7; Project Name: Nova Scotia Mineral OAE Project; Protocol: Ocean Alkalinity 
Enhancement from Coastal Outfalls v.1.0 (Isometric).
205 Details for this CREW Carbon project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification Number: 
X8KC; Project Name: New England WAE Project; Protocol: Wastewater Alkalinity Enhancement 
v1.0 (Isometric).
206 Details for this CarbonRun project include: Registry: Isometric; Project Identification Number: XJ4Y; 
Project Name: Kvina River CDR Project; Protocol: River Alkalinity Enhancement v.1.0 (Isometric).
207 Refer to endnote 199 above.
208 Refer to endnote 194 above.
209 “Purchased electricity” is electricity sourced from an electrical grid and purchased from a local 
electric utility company. 
210 “Purchased heat” includes both natural gas in leased facilities and district heat in applicable facilities.
211 Refer to endnote 209 above.
212 Refer to endnote 210 above.
213 Refer to endnote 194 above.
214 “Total electricity consumption” includes both purchased and self-generated electricity.
215 Refer to endnote 194 above.
216 Refer to endnote 214 above.
217 “Total renewable electricity allocated” includes renewable electricity generation from contractual 
instruments (i.e., EACs), which have been used in the calculation of scope 2 market-based emissions 
per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Quality Criteria.
218 For 2022 and 2023, the Canada & Mexico regional average Google CFE metric includes only 
Canadian grid regions where we had data center operations. We didn’t have data center operations 
in Mexico prior to 2024.
219 This represents Google CFE percentages for grid regions with Google-owned and -operated data 
centers in 2025. All our data center operations, including third-party-operated facilities, are still 
included in our global and regional Google CFE metrics.
220 We report individual campus PUE only for campuses with at least 12 months of data. All reported PUE 
values are rounded to the hundredths place.
221 In 2023, we adjusted our methodology for calculating waste generated and diversion for our 
offices, integrating new data sources for reused furniture and recycled e-waste. These changes are 
reflected in our reported office waste data for 2023 and 2024, but not for prior years.
222 Refer to endnote 194 above.
223 Refer to endnote 180 above.
224 Unless otherwise specified, water withdrawals are potable water.
225 Refer to endnote 78 above.
226 Air-cooled facility.
227 For more details, refer to the Eemshaven webpage on the Google Data Centers Location website.
228 Refer to endnote 226 above.
229 Refer to endnote 226 above.
230 Refer to endnote 226 above.
231 Refer to endnote 226 above.
232 For more details, refer to the St. Ghislain webpage on the Google Data Centers Location website.
233 Refer to endnote 226 above.
234 Refer to endnote 226 above.
235 Refer to endnote 226 above.
236 The suppliers requested to participate in CDP’s corporate questionnaire may vary year-over-year.
237 “Sustainability Report, FY2024,” Equinix, April 2025.
116

Environmental 
Report
2026
Want to learn more?
For interactive ways to explore the report’s data and stories, visit our 2026 
Environmental Report webpage . Refer to our Sustainability blog for ongoing 
news and progress, or sign up to the Google Sustainability newsletter for the 
latest updates and event information.
Publication date: June 2026