2025 Sustainability Report
Connecting to a Better Reality
Reporting on Fiscal Year 2024

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
Table of Contents
03 Leadership
06 Executive Summary
06 About Meta
07 Connecting to a Better Reality
08 Goals
09 2024 Highlights
10 Climate
14 Understanding Emissions
17 Reducing Emissions
33 Removing Emissions
37 Climate Risk and Resilience
41 Technologies and Programs
44 Designing Data Centers for AI
47 Offices
49 Water
50 Water Stewardship
54 Responsible Supply Chain
55 Framework for Supplier Standards 
and Risk Assessments
57 Labor Practices and Worker 
Well‑Being
62 Biodiversity
63 Planning to Preserve Biodiversity
70 Appendix
70 About This Report
71 Forward‑Looking Statements
72 Sustainability Governance
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
3
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
A Message From
Rachel Peterson Blair Swedeen
VICE PRESIDENT OF 
INFRASTRUCTURE DATA CENTERS
GLOBAL HEAD OF NET ZERO 
AND SUSTAINABILITY
This report outlines some of the ways Meta is 
working to minimize the impact of our energy 
and water usage, support the decarbonization 
of our supply chain, and engage in partnerships 
to drive innovation. Our sustainability strategy 
is centered around climate, water, supply chain 
responsibility, and biodiversity. 
The Meta sustainability team is supporting our 
company goal to be a driving force in artificial 
intelligence (AI) while continuing to progress on 
our goals to achieve net zero emissions across 
our value chain and become water positive 
in 2030. From optimizing energy storage to 
identifying water leaks, AI is playing an important 
role in our sustainability efforts and is supporting 
the development of climate solutions for Meta, 
our industry, and beyond.
As we continue to build the future of human connection and the 
technology that makes it possible, we strive to do so in a way 
that supports a more sustainable world.
A Message From Rachel Peterson, Vice President of Infrastructure 
Data Centers and
Blair Swedeen, Global 
Head of Net Zero and Sustainability

Climate
We are taking a multifaceted approach to 
implementing emissions reduction strategies that 
includes procuring clean and renewable energy 
and exploring innovative technologies like energy 
storage and geothermal energy. As a result of 
our clean and renewable energy procurement, we 
have reduced our emissions by 23.8 million metric 
tons (M MT) of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) 
since 2021. Wind and solar projects supported by 
Meta over the last decade are adding more than 
15 gigawatts (GW) of clean and renewable energy 
to grids globally. Additionally, we are embedding 
circularity principles across our operations and 
exploring technologies like low carbon fuels and 
construction materials to reduce our emissions.
The majority of our emissions are connected to our 
supply chain, and we are engaging with our suppliers 
to accelerate their efforts to reduce their emissions. 
By the end of 2024, 48% of our suppliers, based 
on their contribution to our emissions, have set 
science‑aligned emissions reduction targets. 
Water
We organize our water stewardship efforts 
around minimizing water use, transparently 
reporting our water data, and supporting water 
restoration projects. 
Since 2017, Meta has supported over 40 water 
restoration projects across nine watersheds. In 2024 
alone, operational water restoration projects returned 
more than 1.6 billion gallons of water to high and 
medium water stress regions. We work collectively 
as part of the Water Resilience Coalition ↗ of the 
UN CEO Water Mandate ↗, focusing on corporate 
water stewardship.
Because our data centers are responsible for 
the bulk of our water use, we focus most of our 
reduction efforts in that space. Data centers rely on 
water for managing temperature and humidity. Our 
data centers are designed with increasingly water 
efficient features. Water ‑budgeting and flow meter 
audits help us track and further reduce water use.
Responsible Supply Chain
Our responsible supply chain program strives to 
empower workers and protect the environment. 
Integrating sustainability criteria into supplier 
performance management supports the broader 
business goals by helping to manage labor, health 
and safety, human rights, and environmental risks in 
the manufacturing supply chain. 
In 2024, we reached more than 60,000 
manufacturing workers through capacity 
building initiatives to build knowledge, skills, 
and management systems on human rights and 
environmental compliance topics. 
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
4

Biodiversity
We seek opportunities to protect and promote 
biodiversity across our operations and facilities. 
Our standard data center design dedicates the 
vast majority of unbuilt outdoor spaces to restore 
native habitat and largely eliminates turf and exotic 
ornamental species. By the end of 2024, more than 
50% of our owned data center campus footprint 
was planned, installed, or preserved to intentionally 
support local, native, biodiverse habitats. That 
equals more than 4,000 acres.
When possible, we partner with local groups to 
support nature‑based initiatives in our communities. 
For example, we worked with the Tennessee 
Environmental Council and Sumner County Schools 
to support the installation of 6,000 square feet of 
pollinator gardens in six schools near our Gallatin 
data center.
Looking Forward 
to a Better Reality
As we press forward with our ambitious 
sustainability goals, we are facing increasingly 
complex challenges at every turn. External factors, 
such as the pace of technological advancements and 
market development for clean and renewable energy 
projects, and uncertain policy landscapes are adding 
to the complexity of our journey. 
This year’s sustainability report highlights our 
progress, challenges, and opportunities. We are 
pleased by what we have achieved so far but 
we know there is more work to be done. We are 
committed to continued innovation, collaboration, 
and transparency as we work towards a more 
sustainable future.
Blair Swedeen 
Global Head of Net Zero and Sustainability
Rachel Peterson
Vice President of Infrastructure Data Centers
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
5

Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
Across our work, we are innovating in AI technologies 
to build new experiences that help make our 
platform more social, useful, and immersive. Our 
AI investments support initiatives that power the 
systems that rank content in our technologies, the 
tools advertisers use to reach customers, and the 
development of new generative AI experiences. We 
are designing our data centers to support current 
products and for future generations of AI growth.
We generate the majority of revenue from selling 
advertising placements across Meta technologies. 
More information can be found in our 2024 Annual 
Report on Form 10‑K ↗.
We ended 2024 with offices in more than 90 cities 
across North America, Europe, the Middle East, 
Africa, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. We also had 
27 owned data center locations in operation or under 
construction globally. Headcount was 74,067 as of 
December 31, 2024. 
We build technology that helps people connect 
and share, find and build communities, and grow 
businesses. Our technologies enable people to 
communicate with friends and family through mobile 
devices, personal computers, virtual reality (VR) and 
mixed reality (MR) headsets, augmented reality (AR), 
and wearables. 
We also help people discover and learn about what 
is going on in the world around them, share their 
experiences with audiences ranging from their family 
members and friends to the public at large, and stay 
connected everywhere. 
Executive 
Summary
About Meta
Our mission is to build 
the future of human 
connection and the 
technology that makes 
it possible.
6
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
7
It is not just about us: The 
work our sustainability team 
is doing today connects our 
collaborators, peers, and 
communities to a reality where 
we can partner on long‑term 
solutions.
Alongside our partners, we are working with 
suppliers committed to net zero, procuring clean 
and renewable energy, and developing technology 
to support a climate resilient global community; 
we are working to restore more water than we 
consume; we are promoting safe, healthy, and fair 
working conditions across the value chain; and 
we are restoring native habitats to encourage 
biodiverse ecosystems.
We are also committed to long‑term solutions. AI is 
driving growth across the company, which is driving 
increased demand for energy and water. By using 
AI responsibly, we aim to scale solutions that help 
Meta and our peers operate more efficiently and 
sustainably in the long run.
At Meta, connection is our business: and our 
sustainability commitment connects the world 
to a better reality.
Connecting to 
a Better Reality
Our strategy is centered around 
our approach to managing our 
impact on:
WaterClimate
BiodiversityResponsible 
Supply Chain

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
8
Restore 200% of the water we consume 
in high water stress regions and 100% of 
the water we consume in medium water 
stress regions.
Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 42% 
in 2031 from a 2021 baseline. 
Set human rights and environmental 
expectations with suppliers and engage 
with them to build capabilities to meet 
our standards.
Not exceed our 2021 baseline Scope 3 
emissions by the end of 2031.
Continue to match 100% of our electricity 
use with clean and renewable energy to 
support our operations. 
Enable at least two-thirds of our suppliers 
to set science‑aligned emissions reduction 
targets by 2026.
Goals
Our core sustainability strategy is informed by our goals to 
achieve net zero emissions across our value chain and become 
water positive in 2030. 
Aligned with our vision for a transition to a zero‑carbon economy and healthier planet for all, we have 
identified supporting goals:

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
9
2024 Highlights
Meta-supported wind and solar projects 
are adding more than 
15 GW 
of clean and renewable energy 
to grids globally.
48% 
of our suppliers, based on their contribution 
to our emissions, set science-aligned 
emissions reduction targets.
We expanded the reach of our supplier 
worker surveys, grievance tool pilot, 
and supplier well-being initiatives to 
more workers in more places. 
Since 2017, we have funded more than 
40 water restoration projects in nine 
watersheds. In 2024, these operational 
restoration projects restored over 
1.6 billion 
gallons of water to high and medium water 
stress regions. Once all projects are fully 
implemented, they are expected to restore 
more than 2.9 billion gallons of water annually.
We strengthened supplier accountability 
to our labor standards through expanding 
the reach of assessments and supplier 
business reviews.
As of 2024,
>50% 
of our operational data center campus 
footprint, more than 4,000 acres, was 
planned, installed, or preserved to 
intentionally support local, biodiverse 
habitats with native species.
We continued to promote worker safety 
by supporting safe process chemical 
management at supplier sites, led awareness 
raising and risk mitigation for safe process 
chemical use by suppliers, and supported 
substitution of hazardous chemicals for 
safer alternatives where feasible.
We achieved LEED Volume pre-
certification of our prototype data center 
design and have streamlined more than 
60% of the LEED measures for which 
we seek certification.

Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
Climate
As climate change impacts 
become increasingly 
prevalent, we believe 
decarbonizing our business 
is a critical step for Meta to 
do our part in connecting 
to a healthier planet, more 
resilient communities, and 
a net zero reality. 
Since 2020, we have maintained net zero emissions 
in our operations, 1 matched 100% of our electricity 
use with clean and renewable energy, and have set 
a goal to achieve net zero emissions across our 
value chain in 2030.
Our value chain emissions continue to fluctuate as 
our business expands and recently constructed data 
centers come online. This underscores the long‑
term efforts needed to decouple emissions growth 
from anticipated business growth. In order to reduce 
our emissions in line with our 2030 goals, we are 
prioritizing decarbonization measures today — both 
at Meta and with our suppliers — so that the design 
of our infrastructure and global operations are 
compatible with a zero‑carbon future.
1 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
10
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
11
Conditions for 
Achieving Net Zero
In our effort to achieve net zero emissions, Meta 
is focused on transforming our business to reduce 
emissions that can have the highest impact on 
progress toward our climate goals. We recognize 
that key factors will be necessary for us and our 
peers to achieve net zero, including:
1. New technologies to reduce emissions. 
Technologies like innovative construction 
materials, clean sources of energy, new low 
carbon fuels, and efficient server and network 
hardware must continue to become more 
accessible to shift the way we operate our 
business and build our infrastructure.
2. Strong demand signals for climate solutions 
we need to scale. We believe working with 
peers and joining buyers coalitions to accelerate 
access to climate solutions will help us achieve 
net zero.
3. Partnership with our supply chain. As we scale 
our efforts to engage our suppliers to reduce 
their emissions, we depend on our partners to 
take action with a shared vision to decarbonize 
within their operations and across the sectors 
in which they operate.
4. Clarity on external guidance for companies 
to achieve net zero. As external frameworks 
that define the standards for companies to 
calculate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
and set emissions reduction targets evolve, 
we require clarity to reach our targets in line 
with a standardized approach that both aligns 
with a zero‑carbon future and is achievable for 
us and our peers.
5. An enabling environment for a net zero world. 
Collaboration between business and global 
coalitions is critical to scaling the climate 
solutions we need to reach net zero, shaping 
an effective transition to a low carbon economy 
by improving the accessibility of clean energy 
sources and low carbon technologies for us 
and our suppliers, as well as enabling certainty 
for businesses to access market ‑based 
mechanisms such as carbon credits.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
12
In 2024, our net emissions 
equaled 8.2 M MT of 
CO2e. Our annual data and 
methodology details for 
calculating our environmental 
footprint can be found in our 
Environmental Data Index↗ .
Our 2024 Carbon Footprint
We removed 50,000 metric tons of 
CO2 through carbon removal projects 
to cover our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
 
mt CO2e
Scope 1 47,468
Scope 2 1,358
Scope 3 8,151,825
 Purchased goods and services 1,920,413
 Capital goods 5,517,614
 Fuel and energy-related activities 8,428
 Upstream transportation and distribution 131,141
 Waste generated in operations 31,623
 Business travel 467,741
 Employee commuting 52,299
 Upstream leased assets 731
 Downstream transportation and distribution 112
 Use of sold products 17,521
 End-of-life treatment of sold products 4,203
1%
<1%
99%
23%
63%
<1%
2%
1% 
6%
1%
<1%
<1%
<1%
<1%
8.2M
metric tons of CO 2e
1% 47,468
 MT CO2e
Scope 1
99% 8,151,769Scope 32
63%
<1% 1,358Scope 2 (market ‑based)
23%
<1%
5,517,614Capital goods
1,920,413Purchased goods and services
8,428Fuel and energy‑related 
activities (market ‑based)
2%
6%
<1%
<1%
1% 
1%
<1%
<1%
131,141Upstream transportation 
and distribution
467,741Business travel
731Upstream leased assets
17,521Use of sold products
31,623Waste generated in operations
52,299Employee commuting
56Downstream transportation 
and distribution
4,203End‑of‑life treatment of 
sold products
2 We have conducted an assessment to determine relevant Scope 3 
categories. Select Scope 3 categories are calculated using Meta’s 
Management’s Criteria. Further details can be found in our 
Environmental Data Index ↗.
Percent Emissions Category Amount in MT CO2e
1% Scope 1 47,468 
<1% Scope 2 (market-based) 1,358 
99% Scope 3 8,151,769 
23% Purchased goods and services 1,920,413 
63% Capital goods 5,517,614 
<1% Fuel and energy-related activities (market-based) 
8,428 
2% Upstream transportation and distribution 
131,141 
1% Waste generated in operations 31,623 
6% Business travel 467,741 
1% Employee commuting 52,299 
<1% Upstream leased assets 731 
<1% Downstream transportation and distribution 
56 
<1% Use of sold products 17,521 
<1% End-of-life treatment of sold products 4,203

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
13
“Our sustainability team’s mission 
is to build safe and resilient 
communities in our global supply 
chain, enable water stewardship in 
our operations and the watersheds 
where we operate, and comply 
with applicable regulations and 
commitments. We look to achieve 
our mission by harnessing our 
collective effort to drive positive 
impact, operating with purpose and 
responsibility, and fostering a more 
sustainable future for all.”
Leslie Collins
Director of Sustainability
WE HAVE COMMITTED TO
• Reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 
42% in 2031 from a 2021 baseline.
• Enabling at least two‑thirds of our suppliers, 
based on their contribution to our emissions, 
to set science‑aligned GHG reduction targets 
by 2026.
• Not exceeding our 2021 baseline Scope 3 
emissions by the end of 2031.
WE PLAN TO REACH THESE GOALS BY
• Procuring clean and renewable energy.
• Embedding circularity across our operations.
• Utilizing low carbon fuels and materials 
in construction and operations.
• Supporting our employees to travel with a lower 
carbon footprint.
• Decarbonizing the manufacturing and shipping 
of our consumer hardware.
• Helping our suppliers reduce their emissions.
Climate Goals

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
14
Understanding 
Emissions
Identifying the sources of our emissions enables 
us to prioritize and deploy interventions to reduce 
emissions where we can make the most meaningful 
progress on our path to net zero.
As Meta seeks to decarbonize our value chain, the 
data and tooling that drive our climate work will 
continue to evolve and improve, particularly given 
the challenge to accurately measure and influence 
emissions reduction deep in our entire value chain. 
We leverage our expertise in data science to create 
emissions management tools for our teams and 
improve the granularity, accuracy, and measurement 
of our GHG data.
Forecasting Future-State Emissions
Our Net Zero Hub tool forecasts our future‑state 
emissions based on numerous data inputs, such 
as planned business growth, to model emissions 
scenarios and provides insights on how Meta is 
tracking toward our net zero goal. These insights 
enable us to optimize our emissions reduction 
interventions as company strategy evolves. 
Comprehensive data and 
advanced tooling provide the 
fundamental building blocks to 
fully understand and effectively 
manage our emissions.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
15
A Unified Data Model Consolidates 
Thousands of Internal Data Sources
To improve consistency and reliability, we 
consolidate thousands of GHG data sources into 
a tool that helps us calculate total GHG emissions 
from purchased goods and services like hardware, 
transportation, waste, and product usage. 
Scenario Planning Tool Estimates 
Embodied Carbon of Data Centers
Our omni tool simulates the emission outputs from 
planned activities to reduce emissions associated 
with the construction of new data center buildings. 
For example, it allows our data center engineers to 
model different design choices and their potential 
emissions savings. This tool enables our design, 
engineering, and construction teams to rapidly scale 
new approaches to deploy low carbon materials and 
adapt our data center designs to help achieve our 
net zero goal. 
RETINAS: Real-Time Infrastructure 
Accounting for Sustainability
A new internal metric, real‑time server fleet 
utilization effectiveness, allows us to monitor the 
emissions associated with the embodied carbon of 
our data center servers and components. As part 
of the RETINAS initiative ↗, this metric allows us 
to measure server resource usage (e.g., compute, 
storage) and efficiency in our large‑scale data 
center server fleet in near real‑time.
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

Estimating Embodied Carbon 
in Data Center Hardware
Calculating emissions down to individual data 
center components is challenging because many 
component manufacturers lack the scale and 
resources to quantify and provide GHG metrics. 
In response, we developed a methodology ↗ to 
estimate and track the carbon emissions of hundreds 
of millions of components in our data centers. 
The methodology incorporates component ‑level, 
cost‑based estimates and resource‑intensive 
Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs). We complement 
calculations with internal materials modeling and 
third party tools including imec.netzero ↗ and 
ACT↗. This suite of methods and the associated 
data pipelines enable a more comprehensive and 
detailed overview of the embodied carbon in our 
entire IT hardware fleet.
Drawer
Solid state drive
Case
Meta obtains a “best 
estimate” embodied 
carbon emission factor 
for each of the unique IT 
hardware components 
in our data centers. 
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
16

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
17
Our total 2024 emissions with contractual instruments applied (8.2 M MT CO 2e) were 48% less than our 
location‑based emissions (15.6 M MT CO 2e). Our emissions with contractual instruments applied reflect emissions 
reductions from purchasing decisions we have made. Examples of this include matching 100% of the energy we 
use with over 15 GW of clean and renewable energy and purchasing of over 4 million gallons of sustainable aviation 
fuel for business travel since 2021, which has up to an 80% lower carbon footprint than traditional jet fuel.
Emissions Reductions With Contractual Instruments
Location‑based 
emissions
Emissions with 
contractual 
instruments applied
2021 202420232022
Reducing 
Emissions
Reducing GHG emissions across 
our global operations and value 
chain is our top priority and the 
most effective strategy to reach 
a net zero reality. 
MT CO2e
We have set a science‑aligned emissions reduction 
target in line with what is necessary to transition to 
a zero‑carbon future, and we have roadmapped our 
strategy to systematically transform the way we 
do business.
15,000,000
10,000,000
20,000,000
5,000,000
0

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
18
Clean and 
Renewable Energy
For more than a decade, we have reduced emissions 
by ensuring our operations are supported by clean 
and renewable energy. We recognize that adding 
new energy capacity to the grid is important, not 
only because of our scale and scope as a company, 
but because we want to play a positive role in the 
communities in which we operate.
Since 2020, we have matched ↗ 100% of our annual 
electricity use with clean and renewable energy. 
As a voluntary buyer, we prioritize supporting high 
quality, innovative energy projects around the globe, 
which is key to maintaining net zero emissions for 
our operations.
A fundamental tenet of our approach to clean and 
renewable energy is the concept of additionality ↗: 
partnering with utilities and developers to add 
new projects to the grid. Over the last decade, we 
have contracted for over 15 GW of new clean and 
renewable energy across the globe, making us one 
of the world’s largest corporate buyers.
Energy
Advancing the technologies that will build the future of human 
connection — including the next wave of AI innovation — requires 
electric grids to expand and embrace new sources of reliable, clean, 
and renewable energy. 
As a result of matching 100% of our electricity 
use with clean and renewable energy, we have 
reduced our operational emissions by 6 M 
MT of CO 2e in 2024. We also apply additional 
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) to our 
Scope 3 emissions to reduce emissions such 
as those associated with fuel‑ and energy‑
related activities, customer use of our consumer 
hardware, including Meta Quest headsets, and 
employees working from home. As a result, 
we have reduced our value chain emissions by 
1.4 M MT of CO 2e in 2024. Renewable energy 
procurement has helped us reduce our overall 
emissions by a total of 
23.8 M MT 
of CO2e since 2021.
As a result of matching 100% of our electricity use 
with clean and renewable energy, we have 
reduced our operational emissions by 6 M 
MT of CO2e in 2024. We also apply additional 
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) 
to our Scope 3 emissions to reduce emissions 
such as those associated with fuel- and 
energy- related activities, customer use of 
our consumer hardware, including Meta Quest 
headsets, and employees working from 
home. As a result, we have reduced our value 
chain emissions by 1.4 M MT of CO2e in 
2024. Renewable energy procurement has helped 
us reduce our overall emissions by a total 
of 23.8 M MT of CO2e since 2021.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
19
PPAs bring energy to the grid and support projects 
that would otherwise not have been built. Our role in 
the enablement of these projects is offtaker; when 
developers construct and operate new projects, we 
purchase the energy produced. 
As of the end of 2024, 89 of the 128 projects in our 
portfolio were online and producing power. Long‑
term financial commitments like these play a critical 
role in helping these projects get built. We often 
work to ensure new projects are connected to the 
same grid as our data centers and prioritize those 
that contribute the most to grid reliability (e.g., by 
giving energy to the grid when the grid most needs 
it), while optimizing for emission reductions.
A Few Key Projects Include:
• Partnership with Singapore renewable energy 
developer Sembcorp to support a 150 MW 
floating solar project, which will be the largest 
in the country once completed. 
• Partnership with Highfield Energy Services on 
one of the largest solar agreements in Ireland, 
supporting 190 MW of solar from two projects 
in Wexford and Meath, close to our Clonee 
Data Center.
• Partnership with New Mexico energy provider 
PNM and NextEra Energy Resources on Sky 
Ranch Solar Energy Center, a 190 MW solar 
facility paired with a 50 MW four ‑hour battery 
energy storage system in New Mexico.
We routinely partner with energy providers on long‑term power 
purchase agreements (PPAs) to match our electricity use with 
clean and renewable energy.
Power Purchase Agreements

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
20
Open Catalyst aims to discover low cost catalysts 
that can drive the chemical reactions necessary to 
convert excess solar and wind energy into other 
fuels that may be used to generate electricity 
when other sources of renewable energy are 
unavailable. By developing AI to accurately predict 
atomic interactions faster than the compute‑heavy 
simulations scientists rely on today, calculations 
that take modern laboratories days could instead 
take seconds. This would enable the large‑scale 
exploration of new materials which is crucial when 
there are billions of possible combinations to test.
Geothermal
We announced an agreement with Sage 
Geosystems ↗ to support the first deployment of 
next‑generation geothermal power at scale east 
of the Rocky Mountains. This project — which will 
deliver up to 150 MW of new geothermal baseload 
power — will help significantly expand the use of 
geothermal power in the US and allows us to further 
diversify our portfolio with this clean, affordable, 
and resilient power source. Our commitment to 
long‑term electricity purchases from burgeoning 
technologies like geothermal provides financial 
certainty to projects like this, helping them come 
to the grid faster.
Energy Storage
A broad portfolio of energy sources is vital to the 
modern energy grid, but incorporating wind and solar 
requires a way to store power for the times when 
the sun is not shining and the wind is not blowing. 
Meta has supported one form of energy storage 
technology by contracting to bring 100 MW of four ‑
hour duration battery storage to support the grid in 
New Mexico. We are also using our AI capabilities to 
support acceleration of research in the space.
Discovering the right combination of catalysts is a 
time‑consuming process, with billions of element 
combinations to test. Experimentalists using 
standard synthesis methods can test ten materials 
per day, while a modern computational laboratory 
using quantum mechanical simulation tools such 
as density functional theory (DFT) can run 40,000 
simulations per year. A partnership between the 
Meta Fundamental AI Research Team and Carnegie 
Mellon University, Open Catalyst’s goal is to enable 
researchers to screen millions — possibly billions — 
of catalysts per year.
Supporting Grid Reliability With New Energy Innovations
As electricity load grows, a diverse portfolio of resources is 
needed to ensure that the grid remains reliable. Meta is committed 
to doing our part to spur progress in bringing innovative clean and 
renewable energy technologies to the grid.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
21
Nuclear Energy 
As new innovations bring impactful technological 
advancements across sectors and support economic 
growth, we believe that nuclear energy can help 
provide firm, baseload power to support the growth 
needs of the electric grids that power our data 
centers and the communities around them. We 
released a request for proposal (RFP) to identify 
nuclear energy projects ↗ to help us meet our AI 
and sustainability objectives.
Our aim is to add one to four GW of new nuclear 
generation capacity in the US to be delivered 
starting in the early 2030s. We are seeking 
developers that can not only accelerate the 
availability of new nuclear generators but also scale 
sufficiently to reduce costs. We believe working with 
partners who will ultimately permit, design, engineer, 
finance, construct, and operate these power plants 
will ensure the long‑term thinking necessary to 
accelerate nuclear technology.
In early 2025, Meta joined peers in pledging 
to support the goal of tripling global nuclear 
capacity by 2050. Facilitated by the World Nuclear 
Association ↗, this pledge signifies a global 
recognition of the role of nuclear energy in energy 
resilience and security.
Clinton Clean Energy Center
In June 2025, Meta signed a 20‑year PPA with 
Constellation ↗ for the output of the Clinton 
Clean Energy Center to support our clean energy 
goals and operations in the region with 1,121 MW 
of emissions‑free nuclear energy. The agreement 
will also expand Clinton’s clean energy output by 
30 MW through plant uprates.
This agreement demonstrates the value of 
existing nuclear infrastructure, ensuring the Clinton 
Clean Energy Center will continue to operate for 
another two decades. It will preserve 1,100 high‑
paying local jobs, deliver $13.5 million in annual 
tax revenue and add $1 million in charitable giving 
to local nonprofits over five years. 
Photo courtesy of Constellation

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
22
Material Selection
Based on an internal analysis of the near ‑, 
medium‑, and long‑term emissions reduction 
opportunities, our data center design, engineering, 
and construction teams have prioritized the 
most effective interventions to reduce emissions 
associated with construction.
Construction Emissions
This analysis helps inform strategic decisions and low 
carbon material identification to reduce emissions in 
ongoing and future data center construction.
Addressing the emissions associated with the construction of our 
physical infrastructure means that we must identify lower carbon 
alternatives for the materials used in these structures.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
23
Finally, AI can accelerate the discovery of high‑
performing low carbon concrete. Manually 
optimizing concrete mixes for multiple attributes, 
like strength, cure time, and sustainability, can be 
challenging. To jointly maximize the performance 
and minimize the environmental impact of concrete, 
we developed an open source AI model ↗ that uses 
an innovative approach ↗ to optimize concrete 
mixtures. We further developed an AI pipeline with 
industry experts at Amrize ↗, a major building 
systems solution company, and researchers at 
the University of Illinois at Urbana‑Champaign ↗ 
to discover and test novel concrete mixes for 
data center usage. Just through the optimization 
of the mix proportions of conventional concrete 
materials, AI was able to generate a new formula 
that achieved a 40% carbon reduction compared 
against the industry baseline while showing superior 
curing speed and strength. The selected mix has 
been poured in our newest data centers, including 
in slab‑on‑grade applications that require stringent 
performance requirements for a data center building 
section at our Rosemount, Minnesota location.
Concrete is integral to the data centers that bring 
our technologies and programs to life. We are 
piloting and deploying concrete with significantly 
lower embodied carbon emissions ↗. Adjusting 
the formula of inputs that constitute concrete — 
particularly by substituting cement with tried and 
tested alternatives such as fly ash and slag — can 
reduce the carbon footprint of this essential building 
material. We have incorporated low carbon concrete 
into specifications for our latest data center designs. 
We are investing in novel technologies to further 
reduce concrete emissions at scale. We announced 
an agreement with CarbonBuilt ↗ to upgrade 
additional concrete masonry plants and scale 
production of its low carbon concrete. We are also 
providing carbon finance to CarbiCrete to scale the 
production of cement ‑free concrete ↗ with a number 
of concrete manufacturers.
With Infrastructure Masons and more than 70 
companies, including the largest data center 
operators, we formed the iMasons Climate Accord ↗ 
to reduce carbon in digital infrastructure materials, 
products, and power. An independent governing 
body has been tasked with adopting or developing 
a standard methodology for measuring carbon in 
digital infrastructure. iMasons will help accelerate 
decarbonization across a sector with equally 
ambitious goals for both hyperscaling technology 
and addressing climate change. Through this 
collaborative effort, we have called on concrete 
suppliers ↗ to support greater transparency by 
providing Environmental Product Declarations 
(EPDs) disclosing embodied carbon. 
Low Carbon Concrete

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
24
Low Carbon Metals
Metals used in our data centers, from copper wiring 
to structural steel beams, carry embodied carbon 
emissions from the moment metallurgical ores are 
mined to the time they are installed in our buildings. 
We are partnering with companies taking innovative 
approaches to reduce these emissions. This includes 
Southwire, a copper wire supplier, whose copper 
is produced with 100% renewable energy. We have 
begun using this copper in two of our data center 
locations. We also aim to incorporate near ‑zero‑
emissions steel in our construction and build the 
market for this steel through our membership 
in RMI’s Sustainable Steel Buyers Platform ↗. 
At another data center site under construction, 
we plan to partner with manufacturers who are 
matching energy use in the steel production process 
with 100% renewable energy to reduce emissions 
associated with structural steel. 
Mass Timber
To reduce the emissions associated with data 
center construction, we have begun piloting mass 
timber↗ in the construction of buildings on our data 
center campuses. Mass timber refers to a variety of 
wood‑based products engineered for strength and 
durability, and act as substitutes for steel and other 
common building materials.
Our first mass timber administrative building was 
erected at our Aiken, South Carolina data center 
campus in 2025. Incorporating mass timber in the 
construction of administrative buildings like these 
will reduce the embodied carbon of the materials 
being substituted by approximately 41%. We will 
begin incorporating mass timber into additional 
administrative buildings, warehouses, and even data 
halls that house the servers that connect people to 
our technologies.
We require third‑party audits to ensure wood is 
sourced and milled responsibly. These audits must 
demonstrate that wood can be transparently traced 
to the forest of origin, and these forests must be 
managed for long‑term ecological health and social 
impact, including safe working conditions and fair 
wages for local communities.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
25
We are working to reduce emissions from on‑site 
construction activities by exploring electrification 
of construction equipment and increasing electric 
vehicle charging stations. In Altoona, Iowa, we 
have tested low‑emission construction equipment, 
including solar hybrid lighting towers, temporary 
power generators with battery backup, and electric 
heaters. We are partnering with general contractors 
and equipment suppliers to thoroughly evaluate 
this equipment with a goal to eventually scale 
its use across our construction sites globally if it 
meets our performance criteria. 
Decarbonizing necessary emergency backup 
power generators is critical to reach our net zero 
target while keeping our data centers operational. 
Diesel consumption from backup power generation 
accounts for a considerable portion of the 
operational emissions from our data centers. We 
have studied the viability of replacing conventional 
diesel with renewable hydrotreated vegetable oil 
(HVO) and have approved the use of this fuel at 
several data center locations. Our Clonee, Ireland 
site was the first site to transition to HVO and in 
early 2025 we expanded our use of HVO to five 
additional sites in North America. We have also 
started using HVO in construction equipment and 
vehicles where we are breaking ground on new data 
centers. This year, we will pilot the use of HVO in 
heavy duty earth works equipment to assess the 
feasibility of expanding the use of HVO across our 
construction projects.
Construction Site 
Electrification
Decarbonizing 
With Biofuel

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
26
While employees are encouraged to meet virtually 
when possible, we promote more sustainable travel 
practices when travel is necessary through internal 
resources for planning trips with a reduced carbon 
footprint. This includes notifications within our travel 
booking tool to inform employees of alternate routes 
or aircraft types with lower emissions.
Sustainable Fuels
We are also supporting procurement for a number 
of alternative fuels that help us address emissions 
associated with employee travel and commute. We 
calculate emissions from individual trip segment ‑
level data by incorporating information on the type 
of aircraft or specific hotel, thereby enabling a level 
of granularity to encourage improved decision 
making to reduce business travel emissions.
Aviation Fuel 
Since 2021, Meta has purchased nearly 4 million 
gallons of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) 
certificates. SAF is a drop‑in fuel made with 
renewable or waste feedstocks that has up to an 
80% lower carbon footprint than traditional jet 
fuel. The SAF we procure is certified by accredited 
third parties that independently verify that biofuel 
feedstocks are managed responsibly. 
We are supporting efforts to drive market demand 
for SAF through our role as a founding member 
of the Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance 
(SABA)↗. Over the next five years, SABA members 
have committed to purchase SAF certificates 
representing nearly 50 million gallons of high‑
integrity SAF , which is equivalent to approximately 
500,000 tons of abated CO 2e. Through SABA and 
in direct coordination with our airline partners, Meta 
will continue to adopt SAF to help decrease the 
environmental footprint of business travel.
Shipping and 
Travel Emissions

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
27
Maritime Fuel
In September 2023, Meta joined the Zero Emission 
Maritime Buyers Alliance (ZEMBA). As a non‑profit 
organization and initiative of Cargo Owners for Zero 
Emissions Vessels (coZEV), the mission of ZEMBA 
is to enable companies to access zero‑emission 
shipping solutions that are not widely available. 
In 2024, more than a dozen ZEMBA members, 
including Meta, collectively committed ↗ to purchase 
the environmental attributes associated with over 
1 billion twenty‑foot shipping container ‑miles of 
zero‑emission shipping on a route from Singapore 
to Rotterdam, Netherlands in 2025 – 2026. This 
contract will avoid at least 82,000 MT of CO 2e by 
using Hapag‑Lloyd’s independently certified, waste‑
based biomethane. In addition to participating in 
ZEMBA’s inaugural offtake, we also signed an offtake 
agreement for sustainable maritime fuel certificates 
with the Danish shipping company NORDEN↗.
Employee Shuttles
At the end of 2024, we successfully piloted 
renewable diesel fuel in our Bay Area employee 
shuttle fleet, already saving an estimated 3,000 MT 
CO2e. Looking ahead, we plan to deploy renewable 
diesel to our shuttle fleets in other locations.
27

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
28
We are committed to minimizing waste and reducing 
upstream emissions in our data center and network 
hardware by applying materials reuse and recycling 
standards. This approach enables us to extend the 
life of individual components, such as dual in‑line 
memory modules (DIMMs) in our server racks, which 
have been a focus since 2021. Additionally, we are 
working on harvesting and redeploying components 
that meet our reliability standards for both critical 
spares and integration into new racks. 
When our hardware reaches its end‑of ‑life, we 
collaborate closely with downstream partners 
to support responsible management of residual 
materials where possible. This includes recycling 
or finding secondary markets for parts outside of 
our data centers, thereby extending their lifespan 
and reducing electronic waste. This is a key part of 
supporting the responsible management of materials 
in the value chain, which includes safely handling 
residual materials, exploring the recovery of valuable 
materials for secondary uses, diverting waste sent 
to landfills, and promoting a circular economy.
Prioritizing More 
Sustainable Materials
We prioritize the use of post ‑consumer recycled 
(PCR) plastics and recycled metal (e.g., copper, 
aluminum, and steel) in our data center IT 
hardware, such as server racks. We aim to reduce 
the embedded carbon in our server hardware 
and promote a more sustainable supply chain. 
We are also exploring lower carbon materials for 
packaging and lower carbon transportation modes 
to further reduce the value chain emissions.
Expanding Circularity to 
Network Construction Efforts
Building on our experience in data center hardware 
circularity, we are now applying similar principles 
to the construction of our network and fiber 
infrastructure connecting our data centers across 
the world. We have conducted some of the first 
LCAs for fiber networks, which inform how to best 
incorporate low carbon construction materials and 
fuels to drive emissions reductions as we expand our 
network infrastructure.
Data Center and Network Hardware
Each of the hardware components in our data centers has an 
associated carbon footprint, and we are embracing circularity in 
our hardware practices to manage these emissions.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
29
Consumer 
Hardware
We are focusing efforts to 
reduce emissions associated 
with our consumer hardware 
such as our Meta Quest and 
Ray‑Ban Meta devices. 
The following interventions contribute to reducing 
emissions from the manufacturing to shipping of 
each of our consumer hardware devices:
Packaging
We engineer packaging solutions that 
safeguard product integrity throughout its 
lifecycle, while prioritizing sustainability. 
Our approach involves minimizing waste, 
utilizing renewable materials, and designing 
for recyclability to drive circularity. 
Transportation
We are working to transition to lower emission 
transportation modes such as ocean freight, 
which emits approximately 10% of the carbon 
emissions of air freight.
Material Optimization
We design products with a focus on 
robustness, reliability, and sustainability, 
aiming to maximize lifespan while minimizing 
waste and emissions through optimized 
material selection and reduced weight.
Supplier Engagement
We are partnering with suppliers to help them 
procure clean energy for their facilities that 
support the manufacturing of Meta devices 
and their components. Through 2024, the 
team partnered with over 15 suppliers on our 
journey to shift the entire supply chain to 
leverage renewable energy.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
30
Net Zero Supplier Engagement
We provide capacity building training ↗ to our 
suppliers on:
• Calculating emissions.
• Setting science‑aligned emissions 
reduction targets.
• Building and operationalizing 
decarbonization roadmaps.
• Creating renewable energy 
procurement strategies.
• Understanding renewable energy markets.
We also help suppliers identify actions to meet 
emissions reduction targets, leveraging supplier 
emissions data to discover high impact opportunities 
for reducing emissions and ensuring a clear plan is 
in place to achieve them.
In 2021, we started working with 39 key suppliers 
to calculate and report GHG emissions and 
identify reduction opportunities. The program 
expanded to 183 suppliers in 2024, representing 
over half of our supplier ‑contributed emissions. 
These suppliers come from sectors critical to 
our supply chain, including semiconductors and 
electronics, construction fiber, connectivity, 
and professional services.
To learn more about our commitment to safe, 
healthy, and fair working conditions for workers 
in our manufacturing supply chain, please visit our 
Responsible Supply Chain section.
We have developed the Net Zero Supplier 
Engagement Program to support key suppliers to 
accelerate their efforts to reduce their emissions. 
By 2026, we aim to engage two‑thirds of our 
suppliers, based on their contribution to our 
emissions, to set science‑aligned GHG reduction 
targets. By the end of 2024, 48% of our suppliers, 
based on their contribution to our emissions, have 
set science‑aligned emissions reduction targets. 
Focused Reductions
We take supplier ‑provided data and 
work with suppliers to focus emissions 
reductions in five main areas:
1. Energy efficiency 
2. Clean and renewable energy
3. Circularity
4. Transportation
5. Supplier engagement
The majority of our emissions 
are connected to our suppliers.

CASE STUDY
Clean Energy Procurement 
Academy (CEPA)
In 2023, Meta and five other leading 
corporations launched CEPA ↗ to support 
and accelerate suppliers’ renewable energy 
purchases and further the decarbonization 
of global supply chains. Starting in the Asia‑
Pacific region, the founding organizations 
pooled their expertise and internal training 
resources to design country‑specific curricula 
to help trainees procure clean energy. 
The Academy offers on‑site learning 
experiences on foundational knowledge, 
latest procurement trends and policy updates, 
and immersive procurement exercises with 
the larger community. These workshops are 
led by experienced in‑country partners and 
guest speakers. Additionally, the Academy 
provides virtual training through webinars 
and presentations throughout the year.
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
31

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
32
Our LCAs and supplier ‑reported emissions data 
have revealed that a significant portion of our 
emissions originate from multiple tiers upstream 
in our supply chain, often from commodities where 
emission tracing is challenging or unavailable. 
In these cases, investing in value chain emission 
reduction projects can help us achieve meaningful 
reductions, even when we lack full traceability of 
the exact source of emissions.
We actively pursue value chain interventions that 
can decarbonize our value chain at the pace and 
scale required to achieve our emissions reduction 
targets. We focus particularly within hard‑to‑
abate sectors and where we are unable to attribute 
reductions to a specific value chain partner. 
We believe that these interventions can catalyze 
the deployment of long‑term, scalable solutions 
to decarbonize hard‑to‑abate sectors and build 
the markets for products and solutions that Meta 
and our value chain partners can use directly to 
reduce emissions. 
The success of contractual instruments and project ‑
level investment in the voluntary renewable energy 
market serves as a powerful example of how this 
approach can drive system‑level decarbonization. 
We believe that replicating these systems and 
markets for other decarbonization technologies 
can unlock scaled investment across sectors and 
countries, ultimately accelerating our transition to 
a low carbon economy.
Meta has launched request for proposals since 2024 
for value chain interventions for emissions reduction, 
and this year we are focusing our RFP ↗ on the 
following sectors: 
• Semiconductor manufacturing
• Chemicals manufacturing
• Truck transportation
• Copper mining and manufacturing
• Steel and iron mining and manufacturing
• Cement and concrete manufacturing
• Space heating of commercial buildings
• Addressing fugitive emissions of fluorinated 
greenhouse gases in commercial settings
• Air transportation
• Aluminum production and processing
• Maritime transportation
Value Chain Interventions

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
33
Removing Remaining Emissions 
While our climate strategy prioritizes emissions 
reduction, some residual emissions from hard‑to‑
abate sectors will remain in 2030. Any residual 
emissions we cannot eliminate will require carbon 
removal projects to reach net zero emissions.
Our carbon removal strategy 
seeks to expand the 
voluntary carbon market 
toward projects that offer 
environmental and social 
benefits beyond carbon 
sequestration, as well as 
to drive new innovation.
Natural and 
Technological Solutions
We believe we have an important role to play in 
advancing the development and accessibility of 
both natural and technological carbon removal 
solutions ↗. Each project type offers different 
pathways to impact at scale, on both immediate 
and longer ‑term timelines. 
Emerging technologies like direct air capture (DAC) 
offer a high global climate mitigation potential 
and will be a necessary complement to emissions 
reductions and nature‑based carbon removals. 
Nature‑based carbon removal via ecosystems 
like forests or soils is deployable now and can offer 
solutions to both mitigate climate change and 
address biodiversity loss. We prioritize ecological 
restoration ↗ as well as projects that directly benefit 
people’s lives and livelihoods, such as by increasing 
food security or providing additional sources of 
income. These types of projects are especially 
important for communities most affected by the 
impacts of climate change.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
34
Symbiosis Coalition
The Symbiosis Coalition ↗ is an advance market 
commitment (AMC) which aims to send a strong 
demand signal to accelerate the development of up 
to 20 million tons of nature‑based carbon removal 
credits by 2030. With members including Meta, 
Google, Microsoft, Salesforce, and McKinsey, the 
coalition conducted its first RFP ↗ focused on 
reforestation and agroforestry projects. Finalists 
from this initial RFP will demonstrate the high bar 
for quality for next ‑generation nature restoration 
projects, with the aim to catalyze the development 
of similar projects in the future. 
National Indian Carbon Coalition
Through 1t.org↗, the National Indian Carbon 
Coalition and Meta have pledged to promote a 
model for carbon removal projects that centers 
on the leadership, traditional ecological knowledge, 
and vision of Indigenous Peoples for themselves 
and the land they caretake. Through this partnership, 
we pledged to develop no fewer than three carbon 
removal credit generating projects that protect and 
restore forest lands through Indigenous, tribal, and 
community leadership. This year, we are happy to 
share progress of our partnership by contracting 
for our first batch of carbon credits with the Fon du 
Lac Band of Lake Superior Chippewa community in 
Minnesota. This project will safeguard healthy native 
ecosystems on the Nagaajiwanaang Reservation 
while increasing access to natural resources for 
the Band.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
35
Climate-Smart Forestry 
Earlier this year, Meta announced a long‑term 
contract↗ with EFM, a forest investment and 
management firm, for the delivery of 676,000 
nature‑based carbon removal credits through 
2035. The project is expected to support the 
transition of 68,000 acres of forestland to 
climate‑smart management on Washington’s 
Olympic Peninsula. 
EFM’s climate‑smart approach diversifies the 
revenue streams from forests to include carbon 
credits and conservation easements alongside 
revenue from traditional forest products. 
It allows forest management choices that 
rebuild timber stocks, produce higher ‑value 
logs, and deliver lasting climate, social, and 
ecological benefits, including salmon habitat 
restoration, recreational opportunities, non‑
timber products, tribal cultural harvesting, 
and enhanced carbon storage.
Latin America Reforestation
Meta signed a long‑term contract with BTG Pactual 
Timberland Investment Group (TIG) ↗ for the 
delivery of 1.3 million nature‑based carbon removal 
credits, with options for delivery of an additional 
2.6 million credits through 2038. The credits will 
be delivered as part of BTG Pactual TIG’s $1 billion 
reforestation and restoration strategy, which 
focuses on the conservation, restoration, and 
planting of deforested and degraded properties 
in selected regions in Latin America. This includes 
the Cerrado biome in Brazil, one of the most 
biodiverse seasonally dry ecosystems in the 
world. Conservation International serves as 
Impact Advisor to ensure the strategy enhances 
biodiversity and supports inclusive and equitable 
community development.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
36
Ecosystem services provided by forests underpin 
an essential defense against the climate and 
biodiversity crises. However, critical gaps remain in 
the scientific understanding of the structure and 
extent of global forests, particularly in dynamic and 
more dispersed forest systems such as agroforestry, 
drylands forests, and alpine forests, which together 
constitute more than a third of the world’s forests. 
Higher resolution forest data has the potential to 
dramatically improve the monitoring of conservation 
and restoration efforts globally. This is important 
for both forest ‑based carbon credit projects 
and other conservation efforts focused on the 
preservation of forests.
Mapping the Earth’s Forests
Forests harbor most of Earth’s terrestrial biodiversity and play a 
critical role in the uptake of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. 
We leveraged our DINOv2 AI training algorithm ↗ 
and collaborated with World Resources Institute 
(WRI) to launch an open source map of global tree 
canopy height at a 1‑meter resolution ↗, allowing 
the detection of individual trees. We hope this 
high resolution canopy height data can ultimately 
be applied to forest biomass and carbon stock 
monitoring. Remote sensing ↗ can make the 
monitoring and verification of carbon removal 
projects more efficient and more accessible, 
especially for smaller scale projects in communities 
or initiatives that have a higher barrier to participate 
in the carbon market.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
37
We identify and assess actual (historic and current) 
and potential (future) climate‑related transition 
and physical risks, opportunities, and financial 
impacts to our operations and value chain across 
multiple time horizons. Examples of transition risks 
we assess include reputational risk from perceived 
environmental impacts of global technology 
infrastructure and the potential for new global 
climate regulations that may lead to increased 
operational costs. Examples of physical risks we 
assess include climate‑related extreme weather 
events, especially in the US where the majority of 
our data centers are located, causing disruptions 
that may lead to incremental data center operation 
costs and interruptions to our programs.
To manage any transition risks, we are working 
toward achieving our net zero and water positive 
goals, as outlined in these reports: Our Path to Net 
Zero↗ and Our Approach to Water Restoration ↗. 
Managing Physical Risks
To manage physical risks, we have identified and 
deployed over 100 climate resilience measures. 
Some examples include:
Incorporating Physical Climate Hazards 
in our Operational Playbooks
To ensure the safety of our personnel and the 
continuity of our operations, we create and 
maintain “playbooks” instructing teams on how 
to effectively respond to and manage emergency 
events that may occur at our data centers. 
These comprehensive guides detail the roles and 
responsibilities of various teams and the actions 
necessary to respond to climate‑related hazards 
— such as floods, hurricanes, and wildfires — and 
eventually return to normal operations. They are 
crucial for maintaining operational continuity 
and safety and are regularly updated to adapt to 
new challenges and improve response strategies. 
Accordingly, Meta updated our internal Natural 
Event Response Playbook and Water Response and 
Readiness Playbook to incorporate insights from our 
most recent climate risk assessments to enhance 
site preparedness. Our climate risk assessments 
identify and assess potential historic, current, and 
future impacts from climate‑related hazards to 
our global data center operations across different 
climate scenarios and time horizons. Incorporating 
their findings into our relevant playbooks helps 
enhance our plans not just for today, but for what 
we may expect in the future from a changing climate. 
During a crisis, these resources are easily accessible, 
and regular exercises ensure our staff are able to 
properly execute the necessary response.
Climate Risk and Resilience

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
38
Launching a Tool to Avoid Employee 
Exposure to Extreme Heat
Meta developed and deployed a tool to mitigate 
personnel exposure to dangerous temperatures.
Dashboards deployed across our US data center 
sites capture real‑time heat index and employee 
exposure risk within industrial spaces. Incorporating 
outside ambient conditions to estimate the interior 
heat index, these predictive dashboards provide an 
hourly seven‑day look ahead to assist site teams in 
work planning. In conjunction with the dashboards, 
a “Heat BOT” was developed using dynamic data 
points to notify workers upon entry into data 
halls of the current temperatures and whether 
conditions change while they remain badged 
into that space. The Heat BOT enables workers 
to take action according to our internal thermal 
stress guidance. For example, depending on the 
temperature, employees may need to implement 
a work rest regimen, apply cooling personal protective 
equipment, or stop work altogether. The Heat BOT 
has enabled teams to effectively manage work during 
higher heat conditions, enhancing the ability to 
maintain operations while keeping workers safe. 
Reducing Wildfire Risk with Prescribed Burns
Conducting prescribed burns at our data 
center locations can be an effective strategy for 
managing and reducing the risk of wildfires, while 
also promoting ecosystem health and biodiversity. 
By clearing out flammable vegetation and debris, 
prescribed burns can create a fire break of reduced 
fuels and healthy plants that helps protect data 
center infrastructure from potential wildfires. 
Additionally, prescribed burns can promote 
ecosystem resilience, support native plant and 
animal species, and improve soil health. 
This proactive approach can also contribute 
to broader climate‑related benefits, such as 
sequestering carbon in restored ecosystems and 
reducing the risk of catastrophic wildfires that 
release large amounts of GHGs. By incorporating 
prescribed burns into our data center land 
management strategies, we can help safeguard 
our assets while also supporting environmentally 
sustainable practices.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
39
Engaging Partners to Establish Business-
Relevant Climate Resilience Frameworks
We are partnering with the Center for Climate 
and Energy Solutions (C2ES) ↗ and Resilience 
First↗ to co‑design and implement the Corporate 
Climate Resilience Pathways Initiative ↗, a 
multiyear initiative to establish a robust business 
framework that enables companies to build climate 
resilience, disclose corporate actions, and track 
leadership and impact. In addition, we partnered 
with the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development (WBCSD) to inform the development 
of The Business Leaders’ Guide to Climate 
Adaptation & Resilience ↗, a guide that supports 
senior decision‑makers and their functional teams 
to integrate climate adaptation and resilience into 
organizational strategy, governance, and operations.
Internal Carbon Price Pilot
In 2024, we piloted an internal carbon price 
concept to drive internal awareness of 
emissions and to incorporate the cost of 
carbon into our decision making. We piloted 
the concept in five test cases and used a 
shadow price per ton to accelerate action 
toward our net zero goal.
The pilot helped us improve our emissions 
data and better understand the financial 
implications of those emissions. First, teams 
accelerated their adoption of product ‑level 
emissions factors instead of estimated 
emissions factors to calculate the emissions 
they are responsible for managing. Second, 
teams added the expected costs of emissions 
into the total cost of products and services and 
surfaced those carbon costs into the financials 
of ongoing management reviews. By integrating 
emissions into our business management 
processes, this accelerated the maturity of 
our emissions reduction program.
This pilot also provided valuable insights into 
the limitations of carbon pricing. The cost of 
carbon was generally a very small proportion 
of total costs and a shadow price also did 
not create a direct incentive to drive new 
decision‑making.
As a result, we are not currently planning to use 
a carbon price more broadly and will continue 
to refine our approach, exploring more ways to 
effectively integrate the cost of emissions into 
our business processes.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
40
Collaboration between business and global coalitions 
is critical to scaling the climate solutions we need to 
reach net zero, shaping an effective transition to a 
low carbon economy.
3 Our memberships should not be viewed as an endorsement of every policy position that individual organizations or their leadership take.
We actively participate in buyer alliances and 
coalitions that aim to unlock private sector 
finance that both help companies achieve climate 
goals more efficiently and drive scale for climate 
solutions we need to achieve a low carbon 
economy. This includes platforms for innovative 
decarbonization technologies like SABA ↗ and 
ZEMBA↗ for biofuels, carbon removal coalitions 
such as Symbiosis ↗, and the Advanced and 
Indirect Mitigation Platform ↗, which serves 
as a hub for removing barriers to value chain 
emissions mitigation.
Enabling a Low Carbon Future
Beyond↗ is an alliance of companies, 
nongovernmental organizations 
(NGOs), and technical experts aiming to 
accelerate climate solutions by scaling 
corporate finance through market ‑
based mechanisms.
We work with partner organizations, trade 
groups, and industry peers to incentivize 
climate solutions.
This includes membership in the:
• Beyond Alliance ↗
• Clean Energy Buyers Alliance ↗
• Advanced Energy United ↗
• American Council on Renewable Energy 
(ACORE)↗
• C2ES↗
• Clean Grid Alliance ↗3
Outside of the US, we are members of the:
• European Climate Pact ↗
• Climate Neutral Data Centre Pact ↗
• DIGITALEUROPE ↗
• RE‑Source↗
• Asia Clean Energy Coalition ↗

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
41
We help people discover and learn about what is 
going on in the world around them, enable people 
to share their experiences, ideas, photos, videos, 
and other content with audiences ranging from their 
closest family members and friends to the public at 
large, and stay connected everywhere by accessing 
our products. 
Technologies and Programs
Meta creates technologies 
that build the future of human 
connection, allowing people to 
connect with friends, family, 
and communities who share 
their interests.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
42
Social Impact Creator Partnerships
Building on this momentum, our Creator 
Partnerships team embarked on a mission to 
deepen connections with climate and sustainability 
advocates through AI.
Aligned with Instagram’s 2023 Trend Report ↗, 
which underscored the significance of community 
building, inclusivity, and social responsibility, we 
kicked off 2024 with the ambition to collaborate 
with top climate voices who share our dedication to 
fostering positive change through innovation.
Throughout the year, we organized a variety 
of online and in‑person events to engage with the 
climate creator community, nurturing meaningful 
connections and collaborations.
• During Earth Month, this group generated 13 
million impressions on Threads, showcasing 
their reach and impact.
• During New York Climate Week, we hosted a 
series of Creator Events that brought these 
connections to life. Creators were invited to 
a week‑long series of events to explore Meta 
AI, experience Ray‑Ban Meta smart glasses, 
and learn from Meta partners about leveraging 
Meta technologies for climate action.
• Two Climate Creators attended COP29 
wearing Ray‑Ban Meta smart glasses. Through 
their content on Instagram and Threads, they 
connected with nearly half a million people, 
inspiring thoughtful conversations about the 
meaningful intersection of technology and 
sustainability. Their presence highlighted the 
potential of Ray‑Ban Meta smart glasses’ 
ability to elevate storytelling and foster deeper 
audience engagement, while also showing 
how emerging technologies can support and 
inspire global efforts toward climate action 
and awareness.
• We amplified climate voices across our 
editorial channels with five dedicated features 
throughout the year, reaching a combined 
audience of more than 20 million. These 
stories inspired action, fostered community 
engagement, and highlighted innovative 
solutions driving global sustainability.
According to Instagram’s 2023 trend report, technology has 
become a vital source of social and sustainability information for 
young adults in the US, with 50% relying on it for such content.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
43
Ad Net Zero is an industry‑wide initiative aimed 
at reducing the carbon impact of developing, 
producing, and running advertising to net zero 
emissions by the end of 2030. As a founding 
member and active contributor, Meta has supported 
the development of the Global Media Sustainability 
Framework (GMSF), which provides a standardized 
framework for measuring and managing the carbon 
emissions associated with media activities. Initially 
launched in 2024, the GMSF will continue to be 
refined in 2025, with our ongoing involvement 
helping to shape its development and promote 
sustainable practices across the advertising industry.
We have also developed custom video compression 
hardware↗, a scalable video code ↗ for all devices 
and traffic optimization solutions in collaboration 
with Telefónica and Vodafone. 
In the UK, the AdGreen levy helps fund continued 
efforts to reduce emissions from ad production. This 
work, along with Ad Net Zero, will help our industry 
decarbonize and align on standardized benchmarks 
for measuring environmental impact.
Labeling 
Pre-Owned Products
We launched a label highlighting 2.5 million “pre‑
owned” products shown on Facebook Feed to help 
people make more informed purchase decisions. 
This was in direct response to requests from people 
who use our technology who told us they wanted 
an easier way to shop for products that align with 
their values. 
Across Meta, 1 billion people interact monthly with 
sustainability‑related ads, helping them discover 
businesses that value sustainable practices and 
products with more sustainable attributes.
Pre-owned
Pre-owned
Marketplace
Advertising 
Emissions

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
44
Designing Data Centers for AI
AI enables better personalization and richer 
experiences. We have invested in creating scalable 
infrastructure to support our needs today and for 
years to come. In addition to designing for AI, we 
use AI throughout our data center lifecycle to enable 
more sustainable designs, operations, and processes.
Our next‑generation data centers will support our 
current products while enabling future generations of 
AI growth. Our vision blends high‑performance with a 
mix of custom solutions specific to our unique needs. 
Building and delivering world‑class AI capabilities is critical to 
our company’s near‑term product and business success and 
long‑term vision. 
This design requires fewer square feet to provide 
similar compute capacity to previous data center 
designs, improving delivery time and cost efficiency. 
We assess and implement efficiency and 
sustainability improvements across our global 
network of data centers, implementing standard 
design improvements wherever possible while 
considering alternative and additional solutions 
unique to the sites and locations where we operate.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
45
Infrastructure Efficiency 
and Sustainability 
We take a holistic approach 
to data center efficiency. 
Our efforts include creating custom power profiles 
that only enable higher power configurations for 
the workloads that require it. We work to reuse 
existing capacity, safely repurposing idle capacity 
for workloads that tolerate lower availability 
requirements. We constantly monitor workloads 
through observability tools to understand and 
resolve the root causes of system inefficiencies.
91% 
of our owned data center 
construction waste 4 was diverted 
from landfills in 2024.
100% 
of our owned and operated 
data center and office electricity 
is matched with clean and 
renewable energy.
100% 
of our owned data centers are 
certified LEED Gold or higher.
4 Construction Waste is defined as waste 
materials generated during the construction, 
renovation, and demolition of buildings 
and roads.
45

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
46
CASE STUDY
LEED Volume 
We achieved LEED Volume pre‑certification of 
our prototype data center design typology in late 
2024. The LEED Volume program provides strategic 
opportunities and benefits to Meta, including cost 
savings, expedited review timelines, additional 
reporting integrity, and contract efficiencies. We 
have prototyped more than 60% of our typically 
pursued LEED credits and developed custom 
product approaches for our complex strategies, 
including energy modeling and carbon modeling.
Our comprehensive approach has led to 100% 
of our operational data center buildings earning, 
at minimum, LEED Gold certification, dating 
back to our Prineville data center certification in 
2011. In 2024, 11 total data centers earned LEED 
Gold certification, our largest number of projects 
certified in one year since before 2019. 
To date, we have certified 
52 LEED Gold data center 
buildings, totaling nearly 
36 million square feet.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
47
Each year we compare our actual emissions to our 
annual benchmarks to ensure that we are making 
progress toward our 2030 goals. We are targeting 
a 50% reduction in office carbon emissions in 2030 
(from a 2019 baseline), which we aim to achieve 
through the following reduction goals:
Bay Area
We transitioned our Bay Area fleet of active 
employee shuttle buses to renewable 
diesel, a lower carbon alternative to 
conventional diesel fuel.
32%
in office energy consumption
50% 
in waste generated by office 
operations
35% 
in employee commute emissions
40% 
in embodied carbon of building 
materials and furniture
54% 
in carbon intensity of culinary 
offerings
Offices
Meta publicly reports on 
the carbon footprint of our 
global offices.
We design for resource efficiency across our global 
offices and require third‑party sustainable building 
program certification from our largest offices 
globally. All Meta offices over 100,000 square feet 
are required to be LEED Gold or higher, and some 
offices also adhere to Fitwel, GreenStar, ISO 50001, 
and WELL standards. Our facilities teams monitor 
building resource consumption trends and prioritize 
performance optimizations to ensure energy and 
water efficiency.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
48
Dublin Office 
Operationalizes Sustainability
Our Dublin office continues its focus on 
sustainability and biodiversity, making 
changes to cleaning, landscaping, and waste 
management practices.
The office’s cleaning team replaced chemical‑
based products with a system that uses ionized 
water, reducing reliance on harmful substances 
and single‑use plastic. This shift has eliminated 
the use of approximately 24,800 liters (L) of 
chemicals and saved over 1,420 kilograms (kg) 
of plastic packaging.
Compactors introduced for general waste and 
dry mixed recycling have helped reduce both 
waste volume and transport frequency. Where 
10 collections per week were the previous norm, 
the office now only requires two collections 
each month. In parallel, dedicated recycling 
streams ensure waste is sorted and collected 
separately by material type, including dedicated 
recycling and recovery for cans.
The Dublin team collects coffee grounds 
from office machines, which are then used as 
compost across campus plantings. Finally, the 
office maintains five active beehives, supporting 
local biodiversity through pollinator‑friendly 
landscaping. The latest honey harvest yielded 
75 kg, equivalent to 300 jars.

Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
Water is a vital resource 
for life on earth, and 
we strive to connect 
its management to 
technical expertise 
and responsibility that 
help ensure healthy 
aquatic ecosystems.
In 2021, we announced our goal to be water positive 
in 2030. This means that Meta will return more water 
than we consume in our operations through water 
restoration initiatives that address shared water 
challenges and support water stewardship in the 
watersheds where we operate. At the watershed 
level, we aim to restore 200% of consumption in 
high water stress regions and 100% of consumption 
in medium water stress regions. 
Because our data centers are responsible for the 
bulk of our water use, reducing our data center water 
consumption and being more efficient in our data 
center operations will be key to reaching our water 
positive goal. We also recognize that to balance 
our operational water use, we need to strategically 
support water restoration projects in some of the 
more water‑stressed watersheds where we operate 
data centers.
Water
49
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
50
Water 
Stewardship
Minimizing Water Use
The bulk of water consumption in data centers 
is attributed to the management of air flow and 
cooling of the server halls. This involves managing 
temperature and humidity levels to ensure optimal 
performance and longevity of the IT equipment. 
Cooling the servers is crucial due to the heat they 
generate. Humidity control prevents equipment 
damage, electrostatic issues, and corrosion, and 
supports efficient cooling and a comfortable 
working environment.
Our data centers strive to minimize water use 
and prioritize on‑site water efficiency in a number 
of ways, including: 
• Optimizing for water efficiency in data centers.
• Landscaping with native and/or drought ‑
resistant vegetation.
• Completing water budgeting and flow 
meter audits.
• Incorporating water ‑saving fixtures and 
technologies within data center facilities.
Minimizing water use, being 
transparent with our water 
data, and restoring water 
in water‑stressed regions 
are key pillars of our water 
stewardship program.
Long-Term Resilience Measures
We leverage digital twin models of our data center 
cooling systems to generate accurate estimates 
of short ‑ and long‑term water usage under current 
and projected operating conditions. These virtual 
representations of our systems allow us to take 
a detailed, data‑driven approach to our capacity 
planning, compliance monitoring, and water 
efficiency project prioritization.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
51
Transparency
We share progress toward our 2030 water 
positive goal and our water use in our annual 
sustainability report. We also publish detailed 
information on each of our water restoration 
projects in our annual Volumetric Water 
Benefits Report ↗. Detailed information on 
how we calculate these values and assess 
water risk can be found here ↗. We will 
also continue to publicly share aspects 
of our data center cooling technological 
and efficiency advancements through the 
Open Compute Project ↗.
Water Restoration 
As we work toward achieving our water positive 
goal, we are investing in water conservation and 
restoration projects that: 
• Restore local habitats that promote biodiversity 
and keep water in‑stream.
• Boost water supply and reliability.
• Enhance water quality.
• Provide safe drinking water.
In 2024, we published a comprehensive report 
on our water restoration approach ↗, detailing our 
progress, guiding principles, and key definitions. 
Since 2017, we have funded more than 40 water 
restoration projects in nine watersheds. In 2024 
alone, these operational restoration projects 
returned over 1.59 billion gallons of water to high 
and medium water stress regions. Once all projects 
are fully implemented, they are expected to restore 
2.9 to 3.4 billion gallons of water annually.
Our contributions to the sustainability of a 
watershed go beyond volumetric benefits and 
include capacity‑building components for leading 
organizations in the watersheds where we operate. 
These projects could include supporting local 
environmental nonprofits, governance, research, 
and other non‑volume‑generating activities.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
52
N-Drip Irrigation Conversion in 
the Platte River Basin, Nebraska
The N‑Drip Irrigation Conversion project in the Platte 
River Basin, Nebraska, focuses on enhancing water 
stewardship by converting 100 acres of cropland 
from traditional flood irrigation to advanced N‑Drip 
precision drip irrigation systems. This transition 
aims to significantly reduce water withdrawals 
from the basin while maintaining crop yields, 
addressing the challenges posed by climate change‑
driven water scarcity, and increasing agricultural 
demand. By delivering water directly to crop root 
zones with real‑time soil moisture management, 
the project minimizes evaporation and runoff, 
improving irrigation efficiency and supporting more 
sustainable agricultural practices. The initiative 
includes installation of sensors and smart irrigation 
management technology to optimize water use 
and provide detailed annual water savings reports. 
Investing in this project exemplifies our commitment 
to climate adaptation, water conservation, and 
agricultural resilience, contributing an estimated 
volumetric water benefit of 65.5 million gallons 
annually over 10 years, while fostering collaboration 
with local technical partners and farmers to ensure 
long‑term ecosystem and community benefits.
Peatland Restoration in 
Liffey River Basin, Wicklow 
Mountains, Ireland
The Peatland Restoration project in the Wicklow 
Mountains Special Area of Conservation aims to 
restore 450 hectares of degraded blanket bogs, 
enhancing water storage capacity, protecting 
existing carbon stocks, reducing emissions, and 
increasing carbon sequestration potential. Located 
just south of Dublin, this ecologically vital upland 
habitat has suffered from drainage, peat extraction, 
fires, and overgrazing, leading to significant 
degradation and increased vulnerability to climate 
impacts. Through active rewetting techniques such 
as peat dams and coir bunding, the project will 
rehabilitate the peatland ecosystem, supporting 
biodiversity, improving water quality, and mitigating 
wildfire risks. Investing in this initiative exemplifies a 
strong commitment to climate action and ecosystem 
resilience by preserving critical carbon‑rich habitats 
and fostering sustainable land management in 
collaboration with local partners and the National 
Parks and Wildlife Service. The project is expected to 
deliver volumetric water benefits of 21 to 43 million 
gallons annually over a 10‑year period, contributing 
to long‑term environmental and community benefits.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
53
AI to Address Water Scarcity
Through an agreement with FIDO Tech, Meta will 
fund the use of FIDO AI ↗ to reduce leakage across 
300 km of clean water pipeline network in the city 
of Farmington, New Mexico as part of our water 
restoration program. 
The project, which uses a partnership model called 
FIDO Plus ↗, is the latest to be launched under 
Water United ↗, a new private‑public catalytic 
community committed to developing a watershed‑
level solution to water scarcity. FIDO Plus pairs 
businesses and local utilities with its AI technology 
to deliver fast, local improvements to community 
water resilience through leakage reduction 
and transparent, validated results for water 
stewardship reporting.
The project in Farmington is the first of its kind in 
New Mexico and will benefit water security in the 
Colorado River Basin.
The project will deliver an 
estimated 248 to 391 million 
gallons of water per year by 
using the FIDO AI technology 
that identifies leaks and ranks 
them by size for effective 
prioritization and repair.

54
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
Responsible 
Supply Chain
assess, and mitigate risks to our business; and 
strengthen responsible manufacturing practices. 
We leverage industry and peer benchmarking, 
supplier engagement, transparency initiatives, 
compliance readiness reviews, and strategic planning 
to guide the evolution of our responsible supply 
chain management systems. These efforts support 
our continued prioritization of salient issues and 
business priorities so that we can efficiently and 
effectively expand the reach of our program to 
priority suppliers, monitor supplier performance, 
and enhance risk management.
To learn more about how we are supporting key 
suppliers in accelerating their efforts to reduce 
emissions, please visit our net zero supplier 
engagement section. 
Meta is part of a complex 
value chain that impacts 
lives and communities 
around the globe. 
Our Responsible Supply Chain (RSC) program ↗ 
strives to empower workers and protect the 
environment through open and frequent 
communication with our suppliers, initiatives that 
support safe, healthy, and fair working conditions, 
and a deep understanding of core sustainability 
issues. Focusing on labor and environmental 
standards within our manufacturing supply chain 
enables us to protect workers; proactively identify,

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
55
Framework for Supplier 
Standards and Risk Assessments
We use a risk‑based methodology to regularly 
assess suppliers’ social and environmental risks, 
then engage with them to build their capabilities 
to meet expectations at Meta. We assess suppliers’ 
conformance to the RBA Code of Conduct ↗ 
and other Responsible Supply Chain policies and 
standards via independent third‑party audits, 
supplier questionnaires, and other types of 
on‑site assessments. 
We rely on the RBA’s Validated Assessment Program 
(VAP) Standard for onsite compliance verification 
against the RBA Code of Conduct. For audits 
completed in 2024, the most common audit findings 
were related to working hours and management 
systems control processes for labor topics, which 
are categorized under the “Labor” section of the 
RBA Code of Conduct. 
2024 Supplier Audit Findings by 
RBA Code of Conduct Section
Labor 49.0%
Health and safety 31.7%
Environment 8.8%
Management systems 7.6%
Ethics 2.9%
The chart below shows the percentage of 
nonconformance findings across the RBA Code of 
Conduct section. We work with suppliers to understand 
root causes, develop corrective action plans, and 
assess closure for any identified areas of concern.
We are committed to improving the working conditions and 
sustained performance of our manufacturing supply chain. 
Industry Partnerships
Collaborating with external partners who have 
shared sustainability goals enables us to efficiently 
drive solutions beyond our industry and advance 
positive impact in our own supply chain. Our key 
partnerships include the Responsible Business 
Alliance (RBA) ↗, the Responsible Labor Initiative ↗, 
the Responsible Factory Initiative ↗, and the 
Responsible Minerals Initiative ↗. We also leverage 
third‑party consulting and advisory firms to 
support the depth and breadth of our programs.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
56
Integrating sustainability 
criteria into supplier 
performance management 
helps manage labor, health 
and safety, human rights, and 
environmental risks and holds 
suppliers accountable for their 
performance on these metrics.
When suppliers demonstrate strong management 
of responsible supply chain topics, it helps to 
mitigate risks to business, further supporting 
growth. In 2024, several suppliers with strong 
systems in place for managing labor standards and 
environmental compliance in their supply chains 
were given recognition for their efforts during 
supplier business reviews with cross‑functional 
teams and senior management.
Building Business Value
CASE STUDY
Integrating Supplier Responsibility 
Into Sourcing Practices
Supplier performance management is 
used to review the business performance 
between Meta and selected Meta suppliers 
led by sourcing teams and cross‑functional 
partners. Meta and suppliers submit their 
own reviews for supplier performance 
results and meet to discuss results. 
The Responsible Supply Chain team 
contributes to Supplier Business Reviews 
for data center and Reality Lab manufacturing 
suppliers. The scoring for sustainability is 
meant to highlight major accomplishments, 
dive deep into critical issues, and track 
progress on action items. The goal is that 
suppliers with strong performance and 
compliance on these topics are recognized.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
57
Labor Practices and Worker Well-Being
We comply with applicable international human 
rights standards, labor and employment laws, rules 
and regulations, and work to mitigate the risks 
of modern slavery and human trafficking in our 
business operations and supply chains. 
Our Anti‑Slavery and Human Trafficking 
Statement ↗ describes our policies and procedures 
in relation to the risk of modern slavery and human 
trafficking in our business operations and supply 
chains. Last year, we took additional measures to 
deepen our approach to addressing child labor risks 
throughout the manufacturing supply chain. 
Meta is opposed to all forms 
of human trafficking, slavery, 
servitude, forced or compulsory 
labor, child labor, and all other 
trafficking‑related activities. 
Meta is a member of the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) and is committed to working 
towards the 10 principles of the UNGC focused 
on human rights, labor, environment, and anti‑
corruption. The UNGC’s principles include, amongst 
others, the elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labor and the effective abolition of 
child labor.
Protecting workers from environmental, health, 
and safety risks is a key part of our mission and the 
RBA Code of Conduct ↗. 
• Our Materials of Concern Standard supports a 
safe and healthy environment for anyone who 
manufactures, uses, or recycles Meta products. 
• Our Electronics Reuse and Recycling Standard 
applies to all third parties who provide or 
contract to provide services with respect to 
the recycling, reuse, or takeback of electronic 
equipment and electronic waste for, or on 
behalf of, Meta.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
58
Worker Resilience
Our worker well‑being program is designed to 
support the safe working conditions and sustained 
performance of our manufacturing supply chain 
by keeping worker well‑being at the core of what 
we do. In 2024, we reached more than 60,000 
manufacturing workers through capacity building 
initiatives to build knowledge, skills, and management 
systems on human rights and environmental 
compliance topics. Each year we identify a subset of 
strategic supplier sites for inclusion in our focused 
initiatives on worker well‑being. At these strategic 
supplier sites, we deploy worker surveys, provide 
resources to strengthen grievance mechanisms and 
support capacity‑building programs, and conduct 
other worker engagement activities to understand 
workers’ needs and perspectives. Survey results 
inform supplier management teams on how to shape 
action plans to address root cause issues and further 
support workers. Investing in suppliers’ worker 
satisfaction and working conditions is important for 
our long‑term success and further bolsters worker 
resilience in the face of change. We will continue to 
measure the impact of these programs via our worker 
surveys and apply lessons learned as we further 
develop the program.
CASE STUDY
Worker Voice 
In 2024, we doubled the number of strategic supplier 
sites that participated in worker surveys compared 
to 2023. Worker surveys provide an anonymous 
channel for workers to express their sentiment 
on job satisfaction and overall well‑being. The 
results of the survey help factory leadership better 
understand workers’ opinions and needs. They also 
drive improved supplier operational or performance 
metrics by supporting worker retention, improved 
health and safety, and better performance and 
efficiency, leading to improved social impact. Based 
on the surveys, we further supported a pilot to 
test a digital tool for supplier employees to report 
issues and anonymously submit feedback to their 
management on specific topics and issues related 
to working conditions.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
59
The Respectful Workplace program at Meta gives 
suppliers the tools, knowledge, and skills to build up 
their management systems to prevent and address 
potential workplace safety issues.
In 2024, Meta worked with a strategic supplier 
to identify improvement opportunities to 
strengthen worker ‑management relationships and 
workplace communications. We worked with the 
supplier’s business, human resources, and training 
departments to launch a Respectful Workplace 
Training Program to build capabilities through 
peer and management coaching.
CASE STUDY
Happiness Series 
Launched in 2020, our Happiness Series 
initiative aims to elevate worker well‑being and 
sense of community by focusing on employee 
voice and impact. Our first project co‑designed 
with a supplier in 2021 was a “smart” library 
which expanded access to books and resources 
for workers. The following year, we supported 
a reading competition and talent show 
for families.
In 2023, we conducted a Worker Satisfaction 
Survey to gather valuable feedback and insights 
from workers, which identified potential ways 
to further drive positive changes. In 2024, Meta 
partnered with a supplier team to co‑design a 
program that provided well‑being activities for 
their employees. The 2024 program included 
providing treats and tea to workers in the 
summer season and supporting a gym room as a 
dedicated space for workers to engage in health 
and wellness activities with their community.
We have deployed these trainings in several 
countries. We also offer a voluntary online training to 
Meta employees on best practices in building a safe 
and respectful workplace in supply chains.
Fostering Respectful 
Workplaces 
Our Responsible Supply Chain 
standards and policies are built 
on international standards.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
60
Suppliers completed self ‑assessments, participated 
in specialized assessment visits and training, and 
developed corrective action plans to address priority 
issues related to health and safety and emergency 
preparedness. After completing this program, 
suppliers demonstrated RSC performance and 
RBA Code compliance improvements. 
Process Chemical Program
Protecting workers from environmental, health, and 
safety risks is a key part of our RSC mission and the 
RBA Code of Conduct. Our Materials of Concern 
Standard supports safe and healthy environments for 
anyone who manufactures or uses Meta products. 
We continue advancing our work to reduce worker 
exposure to hazardous chemicals by supporting 
safe process chemical management at supplier 
sites, utilizing the RBA Industry Focus Process 
Chemicals (IFPC) Policy as a foundation. Our 
Supplier IFPC Engagement Strategy supports 
supplier conformance to IFPC requirements, 
builds the capacity of suppliers to safely manage 
process chemicals, and encourages their use of 
safer alternatives. 
Responsible Factory Initiative
In 2024, we doubled the number of supplier sites participating in 
the RBA’s Responsible Factory Initiative to build knowledge, skills, 
and management systems on human rights and environmental 
compliance topics. 
In 2024, we:
• Used surveying and data collection tools to 
evaluate the use of process chemicals by key 
supplier sites and assess their policies and 
procedures to protect worker safety. 
• Delivered training webinars to suppliers to 
support awareness raising and risk mitigation 
for safe process chemical use. 
• Completed chemical management assessments 
(CMA) and broader EHS assessments at priority 
suppliers which helped identify and resolve 
non‑conformances. 
• Participated in industry working groups to 
understand requirements for industry initiatives 
to support a harmonized due diligence approach 
on identifying, assessing, and addressing 
chemical management risks throughout the 
electronics production supply chain.
Safeguarding workers’ health and the environment 
is critically important. Leveraging industry tools 
and best practices helps Meta address capacity‑
building needs, efficiently strengthen and scale 
the reach of our process chemical program, and 
support risk mitigation.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
61
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Meta is committed to the responsible sourcing of minerals used 
in Reality Labs devices and compliance with applicable regulatory 
requirements, including the Dodd‑Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act of 2010. 
Our Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy ↗ guides 
our responsible sourcing practices and expectations 
for our suppliers. 
Our program includes tantalum, tin, tungsten, and 
gold (3TG). Meta conducts risk ‑based supply chain 
due diligence in accordance with internationally 
recognized due diligence standards and principles. 
Our due diligence enables us to identify and manage 
risks, support regulatory compliance, bolster 
resilience within our mineral supply chain, and 
support responsible minerals production and trade. 
We expect our suppliers to share this commitment 
to responsible sourcing and to fully support Meta in 
meeting our regulatory requirements.
Our annual Conflict Minerals Report ↗ outlines our 
commitment and due diligence implementation 
for the responsible sourcing of 3TG used in our 
consumer hardware products in line with our 
Responsible Mineral Sourcing Policy.

62
2025 Meta Sustainability Report
Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
Since 2023, our standard data center design 
dedicates the vast majority of unbuilt outdoor 
spaces to restore native habitat and largely 
eliminates turf and exotic ornamental species. 
By 2024, the focus on preservation and restoration 
practices was programmatically connected to 
each step of data center development: diligence, 
planning, design, construction, and operation. 
Meta is committed to playing a positive role 
and investing in the long ‑term vitality of the 
communities in which we operate our data centers.
Biodiversity
We are committed to 
supporting biodiversity 
at our data center 
properties.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
63
During site diligence, qualified local native habitat 
experts assess our acquired properties through 
a standardized, science‑based evaluation that is 
adapted from, and tracks to, emerging biodiversity 
reporting metrics. 5 
We design our data center campuses to largely 
avoid sensitive ecosystems, instead focusing on 
restoration and enhancement that complements 
the natural surroundings and regional character. 
Acquired properties that may have been degraded by 
previous uses are targeted for uplift and restoration, 
and areas disturbed by construction activities are 
integrated into each campus’s biodiversity plan. 
5 Such as the TFND ( Task Force on Nature‑Related Financial Disclosures) ↗)
Planning to Preserve Biodiversity
Over 50% of our owned operational data center 
campus footprint — more than 4,000 acres — was 
planned, installed, or preserved to support local 
habitats with native species. In 2024, we continued 
to increase this footprint, incrementally adding 
additional acreage of biodiverse landscape to our 
portfolio with each new campus. With our new 
assessment tools, more granular data describing 
the restoration successes at our campuses will 
become available, allowing us to identify areas for 
maintenance or additional enhancement.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
64
Meta Campus 
Biodiversity Projects
In addition to the implementation of a 
comprehensive biodiversity‑focused program across 
our data centers, this year we also piloted unique 
land management and special restoration projects 
across our portfolio. 
The following special projects, management 
tools, and creative nature‑based solutions are a 
few examples that highlight our intent to protect 
and restore more land than we impact.
Oregon
Our first data center in Prineville, Oregon — and 
our first native habitat restoration project — began 
in 2010. Targeting the restoration of 200+ acres of 
arid, native Sagebrush Steppe landscape marked 
a significant deviation from typical turf ‑gravel 
industrial landscapes and an immense cross‑
functional partnership. Landscape architects, 
city officials, and engineering teams collaborated 
to envision and bring to life this unique approach. 
Patient and informed responses continually evolved 
the design to keep costs down, find plants and the 
expertise to plant them, and balance native plant 
establishment with weed control and temporary 
irrigation water use efficiencies. In addition to 
seeding throughout the campus, we planted over 
170,000 native plant plugs along visible roadways 
and paths, providing both beauty and a diverse 
local seed bank. We also partnered with local 
ranchers to use sheep and goats to help control 
or eradicate invasive cheatgrass infestations. The 
Prineville landscape supports 20 beehives placed 
and managed by a local beekeeper.
Photo courtesy of O2 Design
64

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
65
Year 1
The white lines are temporary irrigation, 
which was necessary to get the native 
plants going (ahead of the weeds). The 
design intent, with plugs and seed along 
the road, was to put more blooms close to 
the visible landscapes, while also providing 
a seed bank to diversify the expanse of 
the simple‑seeded area beyond.
Year 5 – 6
Ecological restoration is complete in the 
older parts of the restored campus. The 
native shrubs, sage, and rabbitbrush are 
now dominant with patches of native 
grasses and perennials in between.
Year 3
The native grasses are outcompeting the 
weeds and some native perennials and 
shrubs are starting to take hold.
Prineville, Oregon Restoration
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
66
Alabama 
A Black Belt Prairie restoration garden and seed 
processing facility at our Montgomery data center 
campus will allow us to produce, harvest, and plant 
our own diverse mix of locally native seeds and 
help restore this endangered ecosystem. Our 1,500 
acre property was around 95% exotic grass upon 
purchase. Black Belt Prairie ecosystems are known 
to produce hundreds of different grass and pollinator 
plant species throughout the year, in turn providing 
food and habitat for a network of insects, birds, and 
other animals. Our restoration project at this campus 
will increase the amount of Black Belt Prairie habitat 
in the world, of which only 1 – 3% 6 remains.
We collected the biodiverse seed mix sustainably 
from a wild remnant of this prairie, with permission 
from a local private landowner. The seeds were 
cleaned, dried, and stored in our onsite processing 
facility to be planted in our 10‑acre onsite 
restoration garden.
Instead of maintaining turf at this data center, 
we will plant Black Belt Prairie seeds on any areas 
disturbed during construction. We have also 
partnered with a local grower to farm non‑built 
areas, a common restoration approach for weed 
control to prepare large areas for incremental 
transition to prairie. We hope our restoration garden 
will continuously serve as a source plot, supplying 
the seeds for campus restoration.
Photo courtesy of Mitchell Belle
6 mississippientomologicalmuseum.org.msstate.edu/habitats/black.belt.prairie/
BlackBeltPrairie.htm ↗
2025 Meta Sustainability Report

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
67
South Carolina 
Before breaking ground at our Aiken campus, we 
partnered with the South Carolina State Forestry 
Commission to perform a prescribed burn over 
400 acres. The project was a cost ‑ and nature‑
effective way to protect sensitive soils and 
promote native plant species by reducing weed 
competition, recycling nutrients, building soil, 
controlling pests, and reducing risk of wildfire. 
While prescribed burning is a common landscape 
tool used throughout the world, after this successful 
pilot we have deployed prescribed burns as a tool at 
several other locations and have embedded this tool 
into our land management program as a standard 
option for native habitat restoration and responsible 
land stewardship. Read more about prescribed burns 
in the climate risk and resilience section. 
Utah 
After three failed attempts to grow grass and 
other plants at our Eagle Mountain data center, 
we adjusted our approach. Soil testing revealed 
extremely high levels of salt. As construction 
progressed in other areas of the campus, a local 
habitat restoration expert established onsite 
test plots to study the use of soil restoration 
amendments and paired appropriate plant species 
with site conditions. The results of this adaptive, 
nature‑based solution included using a greenhouse 
to grow 34,000 native plant plugs that are ready 
as each area is targeted for completion and an 
innovation for mechanized plug installation across 
large commercial sites. Success at this data center 
required patience, but we are confident our approach 
will yield another 240 acres of restored Sagebrush 
Steppe ecosystem.
Above photo courtesy of O2 Design and 
High Mountain Nursery

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
68
In partnership with the Tennessee Environmental 
Council and Sumner County Schools, Meta provided 
support for the installation of 6,000 square 
feet of pollinator gardens in six schools near our 
Gallatin data center, offering students hands‑on 
opportunities to learn about sustainable practices 
and environmental conservation. 
Near our Mesa data center, we partnered with 
the Arizona Sustainability Alliance, the City of 
Mesa, Valley Metro, local high school student 
Environmental Club volunteers, and the Mayor and 
Councilmembers to plant several hundred native, 
low‑water‑use trees, plants, and shrubs at the 
Superstition Springs Transit Center. This regional 
commuter hub handles hundreds of daily passengers 
from the East Valley. This project helped bring 
awareness to the use and benefits of native plants 
and the value of biodiverse “pocket parks” to 
urban ecosystems.
Meta helped fund the Lotus Marsh Boardwalk at the 
Fort Worth Nature Center and Refuge near our Fort 
Worth data center. The City of Fort Worth and Texas 
Parks and Wildlife Department’s investment in the 
hiking trails, resident bison herd, prairie dog colony, 
marsh boardwalk, and the Hardwicke Interpretive 
Center provides more than 63,000 visitors each 
year with the opportunity to experience nature in 
their community.
Community 
Biodiversity Projects
Preventing Wildlife Trafficking
We aim to combat illegal wildlife trafficking 
across our platforms and are part of the 
Coalition to End Wildlife Trafficking Online ↗. 
The coalition brings together tech companies 
and wildlife experts at World Wildlife Fund ↗, 
TRAFFIC↗, and International Fund for Animal 
Welfare↗. The coalition’s aim is to end the 
trafficking of wildlife parts and products across 
online platforms that have eased the exchange 
of products between poachers and buyers. We 
regularly collaborate with our conservation 
partners to better understand the data and 
methods in which illegal wildlife trade might be 
facilitated across our technologies. In addition, 
we actively monitor endangered species 
content per our Community Standards and 
maintain ongoing enforcement in this space.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
69
Connecting Subsea Digital 
Infrastructure Sustainably
Submarine cable systems — 
or subsea cables — are the 
backbone of global digital 
infrastructure, accounting 
for more than 95% of 
intercontinental traffic↗ 
across the world’s oceans 
enabling communication. 
We aim to prioritize environmental protection 
during the installation and operation of our subsea 
cable systems and leverage industry‑leading 
practices, including:
• Seafloor mapping to identify and avoid 
ecologically sensitive areas.
• Selecting cable routes that aim to avoid 
protected areas, to the greatest extent 
practicable, including critical breeding and 
feeding grounds for vulnerable species.
• Using more sustainable manufacturing 
materials, which do not leach harmful 
substances into the ecosystem.
• Partnering with marine scientists, regulatory 
bodies, local authorities, and community leaders 
to evaluate and reduce environmental impact.
• Engineering and route optimization to minimize 
the spatial footprint of cables.
• Leveraging monitoring devices and sensors 
to provide ongoing data collection for 
oceanographic research and hazard detection.
• Meeting the requirements of international 
protocols, including the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea and 
environmental standards set by ICPC ↗ 
and UNEP‑WCMC↗.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
70
Executive Summary ClimateLeadership Water Responsible Supply Chain Biodiversity Appendix
Appendix
About This Report
The 2025 Sustainability Report reflects our work 
and supporting data through the 2024 fiscal year 
(January 1 – December 31, 2024) unless otherwise 
noted. This year’s report was prepared in reference 
to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, 
the United Nations Global Compact, and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Internet and Media Services Industry Standards. 
Meta obtained limited assurance conducted 
by Ernst & Young LLP for select environmental 
metrics↗. For more information, refer to the 
Independent Accountants’ Review Report ↗.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
71
Forward-Looking Statements
This report covers only the Meta business and does 
not address the performance or operations of our 
suppliers, contractors, or partners. Statements 
regarding targets, goals, and commitments are 
aspirational and may also be based on estimates 
and assumptions under developing standards that 
may change in the future. As such, no guarantees 
or promises are made that they will be met or 
successfully executed, and actual results and timing 
may differ, possibly materially. 
In addition, data, statistics, and metrics included in 
this report are non‑audited estimates, not necessarily 
prepared in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, continue to evolve and may 
be based on assumptions believed to be reasonable 
at the time of preparation but may be subject to 
revision. This report has not been externally assured 
or verified by an independent third party unless 
otherwise noted. This report represents our current 
policy and intent and is not intended to create legal 
rights or obligations. In this report, our use of the 
terms “material,” “materiality,” and other similar 
terms is consistent with that of GRI, SASB, TCFD, and 
other standards referenced in the preparation of this 
report, or refers to topics that reflect our significant 
economic, social, and environmental impacts or that 
substantially influence the assessments and decisions 
of a diverse set of stakeholders. We are not using 
these terms as they are used under the securities 
or other laws of the US or any other jurisdiction or 
as these terms are used in the context of financial 
statements and financial reporting. 
This report is not comprehensive, and for that reason, 
should be read in conjunction with our 2024 Annual 
Report on Form 10‑K↗, our subsequent reports on 
Forms 10‑Q↗ and 8‑K↗, and other filings made with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
This report contains forward‑looking statements. 
All statements contained in this report other than 
statements of historical fact, including statements 
regarding our future results of operations and 
financial position, our business strategy and 
plans, and our objectives for future operations, 
as well statements regarding targets, goals, and 
commitments, are forward‑looking statements. 
The words “believe,” “may,” “will,” “estimate,” 
“continue,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “expect,” and 
similar expressions are intended to identify forward‑
looking statements. 
We have based these forward‑looking statements 
largely on our current expectations and projections 
about future events and trends that we believe may 
affect our financial condition, results of operations, 
business strategy, short‑term and long‑term business 
operations and objectives, and financial needs. 
Especially with respect to the matters discussed in 
this report, many factors and uncertainties relating 
to our operations and business environment, all of 
which are difficult to predict and many of which 
are outside of our control, influence whether any 
forward‑looking statements can or will be achieved. 
Any one of those factors, including as the result of 
changes in circumstances, estimates that turn out 
to be incorrect, standards of measurement that 
change over time, assumptions not being realized, 
or other risks or uncertainties, could cause our 
actual results, including the achievement of targets, 
goals, or commitments, to differ materially from 
those expressed or implied in writing in any forward‑
looking statements made by Meta or on its behalf.

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
72
For the 2024 reporting period, the board‑level 
oversight of sustainability and climate‑related 
issues, risks, and opportunities was provided by 
the Meta Board of Directors’ (Board) Audit & Risk 
Oversight Committee (AROC).
AROC received updates on sustainability and 
climate‑related issues including our overall Net 
Zero and Sustainability program and related goals 
and targets.
Net Zero and Sustainability updates provided 
to the AROC are made by various specialists 
including the Vice President (VP) of Infrastructure 
Data Centers (IDC), Global Head of Net Zero and 
Sustainability, and the Director of Sustainability. 
To drive consistency in the quality of climate‑related 
disclosures, the AROC approved the selection 
of our third party assurance provider for annual 
greenhouse gas reporting.
The Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Meta has 
responsibility for management of annual budgets 
for sustainability and climate‑related activities, 
integration of these issues into business planning, 
and review and approval of our Net Zero and 
Sustainability strategy, budget, and related capital 
expenditures. The COO is updated on sustainability 
and climate‑related risks at least annually during 
meetings with our Global Head of Net Zero 
and Sustainability to review our Net Zero and 
Sustainability programs.
The VP of IDC of Meta has responsibility for 
oversight and allocation of resources to manage 
sustainability and climate‑related issues that may 
impact the company. The VP of IDC reports up to 
the COO.
At least quarterly, our VP of IDC is updated on 
climate‑related issues through meetings with our 
Global Head of Net Zero and Sustainability.
Sustainability Governance

2025 Meta Sustainability Report
73
Stakeholder 
Engagement
Globally, our data centers support:
24,000 jobs
$1.8 billion in labor income
Active data center construction projects 
across the globe support:
154,000 jobs
$10.5 billion in labor income
In line with our commitment to operate 
responsibly and sustainably, maintaining open 
lines of communication with our stakeholders 
helps us understand their needs, expectations, 
and concerns so we can integrate that feedback 
into our sustainability strategies. We engage 
with stakeholders through both formal and 
informal meetings throughout the year.
We gather input from people who use our 
technologies and programs, colleagues, 
communities, suppliers, project partners, 
industry peers, NGOs, policymakers, and 
investors. These conversations help inform our 
sustainability programs and advance our work.
We actively engage with the communities 
where we own and operate data centers so 
we can make local investments that reflect 
both those needs and our company’s core 
values. Our team works internally across Meta 
to provide our client advertising teams with 
pertinent information as they partner with 
advertisers, trade organizations, and industry 
working groups to facilitate progress on 
sustainability in the advertising industry.
We work with various coalitions to scale 
environmental initiatives that impact our 
stakeholders, our company, and the people 
who use our technologies and programs.
Infrastructure Economic Impacts
Meta is committed to playing a positive role 
and investing in the long ‑term vitality of the 
communities in which we operate our data centers. 
We support communities by sourcing labor and 
materials locally where possible, volunteering, 
partnering with local chambers, and supporting local 
schools, nonprofits, and community projects.
Growing Local Economies
From technicians and heating and cooling specialists 
to administrative support and planning, our data 
centers provide quality job opportunities for 
local communities. 
73

sustainability.atmeta.com ↗